aly	Awank-akerr, Akngeyel alker-then
aly	ahern-then arrpmernek.
aly	Arlta 7 ikwerel-antey Akngeyel warrk
aly	ikwerenh ywerrelhilek. Ltyerrek-anem.
aly	Artwa ra angkek, “Arelhel amern akek,
aly	rap ayenh-anem anthek, athanem
aly	arlkwetyek, arelh yanhel ntwarl ayenh
aly	Akngey inkwerelhek artwa Noah ikwer,
aly	rarl ikwer inkwerelhemel awelhek rarl
aly	Noah-el apwert ilperr-ilperr arrernek,
aly	aker ampernetyek. Noah-el tyenkerr
aly	INGKART renh anthek, kwenirremel angkek.
aly	Atha ngenh arntarnt-arayntem apmer
aly	ilenhek, akngerr-anem atha ngenh anthem
aly	akngerram-akngerr irretyek.
aly	Ingkerrenhel ngenh iterl-arayntem.
aly	Ngkwenh-rnem-angkwarr angka atyenh
aly	arlpimpirreyenh, apmer
aly	arrpanenh-angkwarr, ingkerrenhel ayenh
aly	iterl-arayntetyek-awaty.
aly	... Atyetyart tawen ikwer-areny-rnem,
aly	Sodom-areny, Gomorrah-areny,
aly	Admah-areny, Zeboim-areny, Bela-areny.
aly	Rernem atwerrenh Atyetyart
aly	ingwer-areny-rnem-then. Atyetyart
aly	Chedorlaomer, Elam-areny atyetyart,
aly	Tidal, Goiim-areny atyetyart. Amraphel,
aly	Shinar-areny atyetyart. Arioch,
aly	Ellasar-areny atyetyart. Atyetyart
aly	5-pel-ek aherrety 12 anek, ikwer-rnemek.
aly	Nga ampwirremel ilweyenh,
aly	ngkwenh-rnemel ngenh ikwer-itwel-antey
aly	akwernayn, nga artwa ampwanem mwerr
aly	Abraham ra ilperr ayntek arrpemarl. Ra
aly	irrpelthirremel atherrek, “Nthakenhan
aly	artwa aherrety 100-kenh ampa
aly	atnyenetyek? Sarah-el nthakenh ampa
aly	atnyeney-angenh aherrety 90-el?”
aly	INGKARTel Abraham renh ilek, “Atha
aly	awek tern atherrarl artwa apmwangkwarr
aly	aneyel. Atha angka ilkwa awek.
aly	Angel-el renh-rnem ilek, “Apmer renh
aly	artepang arey-angenh alpetyek.”
aly	Ra arlpawel anenh, rernem apmer renh
aly	itnewek Paran. Ingwer-ingeran amikw
aly	ikwerenhel anew inek ikwer, aleyak
aly	16-18 Abraham-el artwa Hitt-kenh 400
aly	thilp anthek, artwa akngerrel
aly	aytarek-angkwarr. Alakenh Abraham-el
aly	apmer Ephron-kenh payemelek
aly	ikwerant-anem, ikwerenh-rnem-akert,
aly	intey-akert, arrewaly renh akwernetyek.
aly	Apmer ranap arwerl-angketyarr.
aly	Ikwer-penhan rernem amern-anem artwa
aly	renh-rnem anthek, rernem arlkwetyek.
aly	Warrkenhel ilek, “Amern
aly	arlkwey-alentyelan, angketangkwel atha
aly	ngenh ileman ilekekarl ayeng apetyek
aly	apmer nhenh-warl. Kel ilant ilekek nga
aly	apetyek,” Laban angkek.
aly	Warrkenh ra ilek Isaac renh
aly	ilek-ilek-angkwarr ayntek.
aly	Isaac angkek, “Ayeng artwamp-anem.
aly	Arrer-anem ayeng ilwetyekan.”
aly	“Angwenharl ngan?” Isaac angkek.
aly	ntwa ayenh iteth-antey akngey-alpenty,
aly	ayeng ngkweng awelhem. Nga INGKART
aly	INGKARTel arek, Jacob-arl Leah-kety
aly	arlkarirrenh, ra ikwer amperrngirrek.
aly	ayeng apmer atyenh-warl-anem alpetyek.
aly	Anew atyenh-atherr-then ampernem-then
aly	anwernantherr ingkerrenh alpetyek.
aly	Ayeng ngkweng warrkirrek.”
aly	Aray, ayeng Akngey apmer Bethel-areny.
aly	Wetharl ntwa apwert anterel apernek,
aly	ayenh arraty ilek. Arraty ntwa ayenh
aly	alhelek. Apmer nhenh ntwa
aly	iwerlelpetyek, apmer ngkwenh-warl-anem
aly	Laban-el Jacob renh ilek, “Alerey
aly	atyenh-atherr ntwa atnyeneyel,
aly	artartey-rnem-then. Atnwenth
aly	atyenh-rnem ntwa atnyeneyel. Ampwal
aly	atyenh-rnem-then ingkerrenh ntwa
aly	atnyeneyel, atharl ngenh anthek. Alerey
aly	atyenh-atherr-then artartey-rnem-then
aly	nthakenh atha ngkwengety
aly	Alakenhaym-kety Israel-kenh-rnemel
aly	apmelerr aker aneny-penh nthakenh
aly	arlkwey-angenh atnwenth-penh.
aly	Ra angkek, “Apmer arlpaw-warl renh
aly	akngey, irrka ilkwewarl renh
aly	iwetyek.” Ra ikwer iterrenh
aly	aynikw-warl akngeynetyek-antey
aly	irrkewarl iwenty-penh, renh
aly	Joseph renh tyayl-warl akwernek,
aly	Pharaoh-kenh artwa ingwer-rneman
aly	tyayl-itwek anenh-warl. Joseph ra tyayl
aly	kwenel anenh, INGKARTel renh
aly	aleth-antey arntarnt-arenh.
aly	Pwelek ngkwernant-rnemel pwelek
aly	anter-akngerr-rnem akwernek-anem.
aly	Pharaoh ra akemirrey-ayntek-anem, rarl
aly	altyerr arek-penhant.
aly	Arlwarey-arlwarey akwernem warl
aly	ilkwewarl, rernem ikwer-penh
aly	arlkwayntetyek aherrety apmwernem
aly	7-pelek-atwety, amern ingkerrenh
aly	ywerremel. Ingkerrenh-antey iteth
aly	anetyek-awaty amern ntang akngerr
aly	“Anwingkerr apmer Canaan-they
aly	apetyek, ntang weyt inerl-alpetyek,
aly	amern-weny-kety,” rernem renh ilek.
aly	1-2 Aherrety atherrk lyapey-angenh,
aly	aherrety innganem ayntek, kwaty
aly	rntwey-angenh arrangkw-anem. Ntang-rnem
aly	arrangkw-anem irreynenh, Jacob-kenh
aly	apmer-itwekan. Ntang-rnem ywerrek-anem.
aly	Amern-weny arrangkw-anem anenh.
aly	Jacob-el renh-rnem angkep-antey
aly	ilanthek ntang akngerr-rnem
aly	inerl-alpetyek. Arringkerr
aly	alhenherr-arey ntang akngerr-anem
aly	Joseph-el warrkenh-rnem ilek,
aly	“Yakweth-rnem-warl amern
aly	arriwek-atwety arrernerr-arey.
aly	Atha artwamp renh ilek atha artwa akely
aly	renh apmer-warl iwerl-alhey-angenh.
aly	Atha artwamp renh ilek, ‘Atha artwa
aly	akely akngey-alpem. Arrangkwelan ntwa
aly	Rernem renh ilek, “Arringkerr atyeng
aly	arraty ileyel wenh, rarl iteth aneyel.
aly	Kel atha renh aretyek, ayeng
aly	Awayikw ikwerenh-rnem ikwer-warl
aly	apetyek, angkey-alhemel, “Anwingkerr
aly	ngkwenh warrkenh-anemarl.”
aly	Ikwer-penh Pharaoh-kenh alerikw aleyak
aly	ilkwa ra alhek kwaty lher-warl,
aly	pwerlpirretyek. Kwaty lher impalthel ra
aly	alhenh apenng-angketyarrel, arelh
aly	akngerrel renh apentenh. Ra alhenh, rap
aly	rtnwa renh arek kwaty-itwek
aly	apenng-angketyarr-itwek. Arelh warrkenh
aly	anyent ra ilek, “Nhak alhay
aly	INGKART angkek Moses-ek, “Atha
aly	areyel-anem, Egypt-areny-rnemel
aly	Israel-kenh-rnem atyenh-rnem
aly	irrwampenh-anthenty atwemel. Atha
aly	aweyel, rernem atyengarl arlkeyel,
aly	arlka kwarnelhentyan. Ayeng
aly	amperrngerreyel-anem.
aly	15-16 Atha mpwelenh alpemelemel-ayntey,
aly	akalty-anthetyek mwerr-angkwarr. Atha
aly	ngenh atyetyart arrernek Aaron-ek. Atha
aly	ngenh ilem-tangkwel, ntwap Aaron
aly	iletyek. Aaron katy angketyek
aly	Israel-kenh-rnem ingkerrek, ayeng
aly	arlkwenteyel-angkwarr.
aly	Atyetyart Israel-kenh-rnemel awek
aly	Pharaoh angkekarl, rernemap angkerrek,
aly	“Nthakenh irreyay! Irrpetyapant
aly	mpwarenty anwantherr, atyetyart
aly	Egypt-arenyel-rnem anwenhantherr
aly	Moses angkek INGKARTek, “Ayengan
aly	aleny apekaparl, nthakenh ayeng mwerr
aly	angkey-angenh. Pharaoh atyeng
aly	Ngangker-akert-rnem Egypt-areny-rnem
aly	rernem irrkaty mpwarek arrpemarl,
aly	antyetyerr-rnem ingwer-rnem tyerrelhek
aly	kwaty-they arrpemarl. Antyetyerr
aly	akngerr innga-anem Egypt-itwek anenh!
aly	Kel ingwer-inger INGKARTel pwenty
aly	thwenek, atnwenth-rnem ingkerrenh
aly	Egypt-areny-rnem-kenh arntetyerrek,
aly	Moses-elarl ilek-angkwarr. Ingkerrenh
aly	ilwenherrek. Atnwenth-rnem
aly	Israel-kenh-rnem-kenh ilwey-angenharl,
aly	Moses Aaron-then Pharaoh-warl angketyek
aly	alhek. Warl ilkwa ikwerenh-warl
aly	aylpenhek, ratherr Pharaoh ikwer-warl
aly	angkey-alhek-anem, “Alakenh-anyem
aly	INGKART anwernekantherrenh ngkweng-warl
aly	angketyek, ‘Nga atyeng arleng-alenty
aly	awelhey-angenh, ngap tnakelheyelant.
aly	Atyenh-rnem apmer arlpaw-warl alhetyek,
aly	aker tyenkerr rernem ayenh arrtyemel
aly	anthetyek, atyeng inkwerelhemel.
aly	Ikwer-rnem arrngert angkey-angenh,
aly	Ikwer-penhan Moses angkek Pharaoh-ek,
aly	“Alakenh-anyem INGKART ngkweng-warl
aly	angkem, ‘Ingwa ampepenyel Egypt-itwek
aly	Ingwer-inger aler arrekantherrenh
aly	alakenh ayernenty, ‘Ilekekarl aker
aly	tyenkerr yep-yep anwantherr arlkweyel?
aly	Ilekekarl yep-yep anwantherr atweyelan
aly	Nhenhan arraty. Apmer ikwerel, arlta
aly	7-ek-atwety amern pikinpat-akert
aly	nthakenh arlkwey-angenh, mentyarl.
aly	Pikinpat iwenherr-arey
aly	Kwenpay ampepel-anem irrek,
aly	Israel-kenh-rnem-thenek
aly	Egypt-areny-rnem-thenek.
aly	Ingwerrek-anem. Kwenpay
aly	Israel-kenh-rnemekant
aly	arrtyernenh-antey. Israel-kenh-rnem
aly	lyenentyel arenh-antey ingwel, mwerr
aly	alhenh. Kwenpayel artek
aly	Egypt-areny-rnem, renh-rnem
aly	arey-angenhelek-anem. Atwemengkirrek
aly	ikwer-rnem-itwekant. Rernem ingwel
aly	Israel-kenh-rnem arrererremel atwekerr,
aly	alakenh-kety atwemengkirrek.
aly	11-12 INGKART Moses-warl angkek
aly	kwenpay-they, “Atha awek
aly	Israel-kenh-rnemelarl mpwelenh
aly	arlkarewek. Alakenh-anyem ila
aly	renh-rnem, ‘Alakenh INGKART angkek
aly	arrekantherr, “Atwerrp-atwerrp atha
aly	arrenhantherr akerel wanteyenh.
aly	Ingwepenh atha arrenhantherr amern
aly	akngerrel wanteyenh. Nthakenh
aly	arrantherr angayakw irrey-angenh, amern
aly	akngerr-anem wenh. Ikwer-penhan
aly	arrantherr iterl-arem, ayengan
aly	INGKARTarl, Akngey arrekantherrenh.”
aly	Apwert itnan Sinai ikwer-warl
aly	alhenherr-arey wenh. Sinai-itwek ntwa
aly	apwert ilkwa arey-alhem wenh. Ayeng
aly	apwert-itwek rtnem, arrekantherr-itwek
aly	arrwekel-ampeny-itwekarl. Apwert renh
aly	atwa irrertetyel. Kwaty-anem
aly	apwert-they thelelhetyek, arrantherr
aly	antywetyek-anem angkethakwel.” Moses
aly	INGKARTek awelhenh. Ra alhek, kwaty
aly	renh atwek apwert-itwek irrertetyel,
aly	artwamp-rnemel renh arenh-antey.
aly	Kwaty-anem thelelhek apwert ikwer-they.
aly	Rernemap antywek-anem
aly	1-2 Israel-kenh-rnem Egypt renh
aly	iwerl-alhek-penh, rernem alkent
aly	atherrel aleth alhek. Ingwer-ingeran
aly	rernem aremerrey-alhek arlpaw-itwek
aly	itnan Sinai. Ampep-itwek rernem ayntek
aly	apmer Rephidim-itwek. Ikwer-penhan
aly	rernem apwert Sinai ikwer-itwek
aly	aynteyarr-alpek, apwert impalthel.
aly	Arrantherr ingwer-kenh ampwal ilek-ilek
aly	irrtyertel iney-angenh anetyek.
aly	Moses Aaron-then Aaron-kenh alerikw
aly	atherr Nadab-then Abihu-then artwamp
aly	70-pel-then Israel-kenh-rnem rernem
aly	apwert irrwerl-warl nganek, Akngey renh
aly	Ikwer-penhan Moses atwarrerl-alhek
aly	apwert-they, ra apwert ilperr-ilperr
aly	atherr akngeynek. Apwert
aly	ikwer-atherr-itwek INGKARTel arrwekel
aly	angka ikwerenh ingkwernek
aly	atherr-angkwarr-antey
aly	arrwekel-ampeny-then
aly	ingkern-ampeny-then.
aly	Ingwer-inger Moses-el INGKART ayernek,
aly	“Ntwa ayenh arrwekel-antey alakenh
aly	ilek, ‘Atha ngenh Moses iterl-areyel,
aly	ayeng inkwerelheyel ngkweng.’ Ntwa
aly	ayenh ilek arrpemarl, ‘Ntwa
aly	nhenh-rnem atnwenheynetyek apmer
aly	ingwer-warl-anem.’ Kel atha ngenh
aly	lyert ayernetyek, ‘Angwenh ntwa
aly	thwenem, atyeng-angkwarr ilkwatherr?’
aly	Ntwa ayenh iley-angenh-antey.
aly	Awey arrwekeleny-rnem-then atnwenth
aly	irrwey arrwekeleny-rnem-then rernem
aly	Ingwer-ingweran, rernemarl
aly	arlkwenh-penh apmer Shiloh-itwew,
aly	Hannah-an rtnerl-alhew-anem. Rap alhew
aly	warl INGKART-wenh-warl, angkaynteyew
aly	ikwer. Artwamp Eli-an anenh arriw-itwew.
aly	Eli-el INGKART ayernenh Elkanah-ew
aly	Hannah-ew-atherr alakenh, “INGKARTay,
aly	ntwa arelh nhenh anthew awey akely,
aly	rarl ngenh ayernenh. Rap ngkweng-anem
aly	anthew. Antha nhenh-atherr ampa
aly	ingwer-rnem-anem.” Ratherrap alpenh
aly	apmer-warl-anem angkep.
aly	Samuel-el tyernew, “Yew! Ilekay?”
aly	INGKARTel apmwel-ayeth mpwarew Ashdod
aly	ikwer-ampeny-areny-rnemew. Ingkerrenh
aly	wangkew tywen-angketyarr-anem.
aly	Mwerrarl ikwer-rnem awelheman. Menty
aly	rernem atyetyart ilkwa ingwer iney.
aly	Mwanty-tangkwel angka ikwer-rnem,
aly	‘Atyetyart yanh-lkwer anenty, rap
aly	rlterrkarl mpwarem arrewantherr. Rap
aly	ilanthem, ilek-ilek mpwareyew
aly	rlterrk-angkwarr ikwer.’”
aly	Ikwer-penh atyetyart ilkwa apmer
aly	Ammon-areny apetyew itnan Nahash, artwa
aly	ahawarr akngerr-akert. Rernemap
aly	amperelew apmer Jabesh renh
aly	Gilead-ampeny-itwew. Akngerr
aly	ikwer-itwew nthakenh alhey-angenh
aly	aketh-warl anew. Rernem angkakert
aly	thwenew atyetyart ikwer-warl, alakenh
aly	angkeyew, “Ipmew anenhantherrenh
aly	atwey-angenh! Ngan atyetyart
aly	anewantherr anem. Anantherran
aly	warrkenharl ngkweng anem. Pip-warl
aly	anantherr alakenh ingkerrenhel
aly	ingkwerney, itnernem ingkwernelheyew
aly	ingkerrenh pip ikwer-warl.”
aly	Ra ngenh ilanthew, atweyew apmwa
aly	yanh-rnem Amalek-areny-rnem. Ngenh
aly	ilanthew, renh-rnem ywerrelhelemel
aly	atweyew ingkerrenh-antey.
aly	Saul-el angkakert thwenew Jesse-warl,
aly	alakenh angkeyew, “Atyetyart Saul ra
aly	ilkelheyel, ntwa alerengkw David
aly	yep-yepew-artey thweneyew ikwer-warl.”
aly	Rap artwa ingwer-anem ayernew,
aly	“Ilekarl Saul-el anthem, ra Goliath
aly	renh ipmew atwenty?” Artwa ra ilew,
aly	rernemarl arrwekel-antey
aly	angkerrenh-angkwarr.
aly	Ikwer-theyan rap alharlkwemel renh
aly	arntarnt-arenh intem-antey.
aly	Jonathan-el aynikw ikwerenh ayernew,
aly	“Ilek-penh ra ilwem? Ilekel ra
aly	Ingwer-ingweran Saul artwa ahawarr
aly	ikwerenh-rnem-akert alhew, rlwaterremel
aly	werreyew Philistia-areny-rnem-then.
aly	Rernemarl angkep alpewel, ingwerentyel
aly	renh alakenh ilew, “David-rneman
aly	apmer aterterr-ampeny-itwew aneyel En
aly	Rap renh-rnem ayernew, “Angwenharl
aly	David raw? Nthenh-apeny Jesse-wenh
aly	alerikwan? Ran warrkenh
aly	ingwer-rnem-apeny, atyetyart
aly	ikwer-rnem-wenh-wetyarl anterreyel.
aly	David-el angka thwenew Abigail-warl,
aly	renh ayernew, itengerreyew ikwer-warl.
aly	Alakenh ayeng ilkelheyel, ra atyeng
aly	mwerr aneyew, iteth-then ayenh
aly	atnyeneyew, ngwamparl ayeng ngkweng
aly	iterrew-apeny, ipmew atwey-angenh-antey
aly	Ngan atyeng-anem awelhemer. Amern atha
aly	ngenh antheyew, ngenh rlterrkeleyew,
aly	nga alpeyew-anem apmer-warl.”
aly	Ngkwenh-rnem intem anayntem. Anyent
aly	ngkwenhan atyetyartarl intem
aly	Tawen-areny-rnem rernem-anem
aly	wey-ayntew. Rernem ahawarr ngkwenh-rnem
aly	ingwerentyakant wew ipmew. Uriah
aly	ngkwenh wew ipmew arrpemarl.”
aly	Ikwer-penh ingwer-ingweran David-wenh
aly	alerikw Absalom ilkelhew, atyetyart
aly	ilkwa aneyew. Pakey mwerr-angker ra
aly	inew nantew atherr-akert, ra
aly	akngaynteyew. Rarl pakey-akert alhenh,
aly	artwa 50 anterrenh arrwekel-ampeny,
aly	atyetyart ilkwarrpantey ra.
aly	Aley mwerr-angkwarr-anem. Ayeng ngkweng
aly	warrkerrem irrkaty-angkwarr, ayengarl
aly	aynewengkw warrkerrenh-apeny.”
aly	Alerikw David-wenh ament iterrew, “Ya
aly	Atha apek renh ipmew atwem, aynikw
aly	ikwerenhel anamerl-antey awem. Ran
aly	ingkerr iterl-areyel, rap ayenh-anemarl
aly	atwewerr ipmew. Ntwa apekan ayenh
aly	alpemeley-angenh, alakenh angkemel,
aly	‘Ayengan arlarl! Ayengan
aly	ilek-angkwarr-antey, innganem ra
aly	alakenh ayntek, angkakert arrwekelenyel
aly	arrwekel ilek-angkwarr-antey, rap
aly	Ingkerrenh apmer Jordan-ampeny-they
aly	John-warl akarrirrek apmer
aly	Judea-areny-rnem-then,
aly	Jerusalem-areny-rnem-then.
aly	Jesus ranem renh-rnem akalty-anthenh,
aly	“Angkepirrenherr-arey apmwekety
aly	Akngey-warl-athek! Arlta ikwerenh
aly	arrer-anem ra Ingkart ingkerrenhek
aly	Athan arrenhantherr ileyel,
aly	‘Ingwerentyel apek iltenty, arlta
aly	ingkernel Akngeyel renh ayerneyenh
aly	arrpemarl. Arrantherr ingwer-rnem apmwa
aly	antwenty, rwa aknganenty arrwekel ikwer
aly	mpwelheyel arlta ingkernel.’
aly	“Ingwer-rnem alhem tyaty
aly	akely-rnem-warl, aketh-warl, Jew-rnem
aly	angkerreyel-warl. Akngerr akarrirrenty,
aly	rernem angkem Akngey-warl,
aly	ingwerel-rnem renh-rnem mwerr-arrpantey
aly	aretyek, tnaketyek. Rernem tnakelheyel.
aly	Akngey alakenh-kety arlkarirreyel. Kel
aly	ra renh-rnem arntarnt-arey-angenh.
aly	Artwa anyent annga arwerl akely-akert
aly	nthakenh arey-angenh. Mwerr-arrpantey
aly	irrtywerremel ilelheyel. Ra artwa
aly	ingwer annga ahern-angketyarr ileyel.
aly	Annga ahern-akert irrarlkelha ntwa
aly	Jesus ranem renh arnep-arnek, angkemel,
aly	“Ayeng ilkelheyel, ngenh atha
aly	mwerriletyek.” Tywen-rnem arwapeny
aly	ywerrerl-alhek, mwerrirreyelpek.
aly	arntarnt-arey-angker-rnem tawen-warl
aly	anterrerrek. Rernem iley-alhek
aly	tawen-areny-rnem, atnwenth-rnem kel
aly	ilwek kwaty ilkwa kwen, Jesus-elarl
aly	arrenty-rnem irrentek artwa
aly	Jesus-el annga renh-atherr arnek,
aly	angkemel, “Kel mpwelanth
aly	mwerrirrem-anem, ayenh
aly	Artwel-rnem ayteyikw ikwer-rnem-kenh
aly	ahayiweyenh ahelengkw-rnemel atwetyek.
aly	Ingwer-rnemelan alerikw ikwer-rnem-kenh
aly	ahayiweyenh, ahelengkw-rnemel atwetyek.
aly	Ampel-rnem amey ikwer-rnem-kenh-then
aly	akngey ikwer-rnem-kenh-then
aly	ahayiweyenh, ahelengkw-rnemel atwetyek.
aly	Ilek arrantherr arekan? Akngey-kenh
aly	angkakertan? Ran angkakert anyent impen
aly	Jesus-el artwa ilkwernem ilek, “Angka
aly	nhenhek iterrenh-arey arrantherr.
aly	Yep-yep apek aytnem irrkewarl,
aly	mwernelhemel. Ntwa renh angkep
aly	tyerrenhey-alpem itethilemel? Yep-yep
aly	itethilem-apeny arlta Saturday-elan,
aly	Arrantherr angka iterl-areyel arelh
aly	atyetyart Sheba-areny-akert. Rap arleng
aly	alhek innga Solomon ikwer-warl,
aly	Akngey-kenh angka akalty-ayteng
aly	awetyek. Ayengan akalty inngarl
aly	Solomon-angkwarr. Arlta ingkernel,
aly	Akngeyel ingkerrenh-antey
aly	ayerneyenh-angkwarr, arelh ra
aly	arrenhantherr apmwa antweyenh
aly	arrpemarl, arrantherr atyeng
aly	awelhey-angenh-they.”
aly	Jesus-el angka ingwer ilenh,
aly	“Akngeyan Ingkart ingkerrenhek
aly	aneyel, alakenh-apeny anem. Artwa
aly	anyentel ntang weyt iwerl-apenh, amern
aly	53-54 Jesus tawen Nazareth, apmer
aly	ikwerenh-warl alpek. Ra warl kwen-warl
aly	aylpek, Jew-kenh tyaty akely-warl. Ra
aly	renh-rnem akalty-anthenh. Ingwer-rnem
aly	Jesus-ek inkwerelhek. Rernem
aly	angkerrenh, “Jesus rantarl
aly	ingkerrenh-angkwarr iterl-areyel, ran
aly	akalty innga. Ranap ngangker-akert
aly	inngarl nhenhey, arntety
aly	mwerriley-angkerarl.” Akngerr
aly	ingwer-rneman Jesus-ek irrpelthirremel
aly	Peter-el renh tyernek, “Ingkartay,
aly	ayenh ila, ayeng kwaty-angkwarr
aly	alhetyek ngkweng-warl!”
aly	Ikwer-penh arelh Jew-weny
aly	Caanan-areny-anem anterrey-alhenh Jesus
aly	ikwer-warl arlkemel, “Ingkartay,
aly	David-kenh, atyeng amperrngirra! Ampa
aly	atyenh arrenty-angketyarr!”
aly	Jesus-el renh-rnem ilek, “Mwantyel
aly	arntarnt-arelhenherr-arey
aly	Pharisee-rnem-kety, Sadducee-rnem-kety.
aly	Ayeng amernek angkey-angenh. Mwanty
aly	arnwarnelhemel yanh-rnem-kety,
aly	rernemarl apmwangkwarrarl
aly	akalty-antheyelarl-kety.”
aly	Kel rernem iterl-arek-anem, “John
aly	wethekarl nhan angkeyel anwekantherr!”
aly	Ingwer-rnemek awelhey-angenh arrangkw,
aly	tyaty-areny-rnemel renh arratyiletyek
aly	angkerremel. Tyaty-areny-rnem
aly	ingkerrenh alhetyek ikwer-warl, rernem
aly	ingkerrenhel awetyek, anngetherr
aly	aretyek. Ra apek tyaty-areny
aly	ingkerrenhek awelhey-angenh, menty-anem
aly	renh tyarlewetyek, ra apmwangkwarr
aly	Akngerr Jesus-warl alhek, ampa
aly	ikwerenh-rnem-kenh-akert, ra akapwert
aly	renh-rnem arneyek. Jesus-kenh
aly	kwertengerl-rnemel ampa renh-rnem
aly	Atyetyart ranem artwa anyent tyernek,
aly	‘Atha ngenh man ilkwa antheynek, weth
aly	atharl ngenh arrwekel
aly	ilek-angkwarr-antey.
aly	Artwa akngerrel Jesus renh apentek.
aly	Ingkerrenh ikwer inkwerelhek
aly	arrwekel-warl alhenh-rnem-then,
aly	ingkern-theyarl alhenh-rnem-then.
aly	Rernem Jesus-ek inkwerelhemel arlkek,
aly	“Anwantherr Atyetyart ilkwek
aly	inkwerelhey, David-kenh innga!
aly	Akngeyelarl renh thwenek
aly	anwekantherr-warl. Akngeyel renh
aly	arntarnt-areyel, ra Atyetyart ilkwa
aly	ingkerrenhek aneyel!”
aly	Ran angkek, ‘Alerey anyent atyenh
aly	atha renh thwenetyek, rernem apek ikwer
aly	awelhetyek.’ Atyetyartel alerikw
aly	ikwerenh anyentant-anem thwenek.
aly	“Ngkwelty atyeng akngetyay, atha tax
aly	maney aretyek.” Rernem ngkwelty
aly	Jesus-anem ingkerrenh-warl angkek
aly	kwertengerl ikwerenh-rnem-warl-then,
aly	Jesus-an amperrngirreyelpek
aly	Jerusalem-areny-rnemek. “Ayengan
aly	ikwer-rnem amperrngirreyel
aly	Jerusalem-areny-rnemek! Rernem
aly	Akngey-kenh angkakert-rnem atwek,
aly	Akngeyelarl ikwer-rnem thwenek. Rernem
aly	apwertel wemel, ipmew-antey atwek
aly	renh-rnem. Ayenganap ilkelhenh,
aly	renh-rnem ingkerrenh-antey
aly	arntarnt-arayntetyek. Ayengan
aly	ilkelhenh, renh-rnem ingkerrenh
aly	akarriletyek, tywek-tywekelarl
aly	akely-rnem akarrilem-apeny, aympelhel
aly	artemel. Alakenh-anyem. Arrangkwarl!
aly	Rernem ingkerrenhel ayenh artepelant
aly	Thip-rnem akarrirreyel ipmitwel, thip
aly	inkwel. Anwantherr anaynt areyenh
aly	arrpemarl, rarl apey-alpeyenhek.”
aly	Aleyak-rnem akwentenhey-alpek,
aly	ingkerrenhel lyenenty-anem lyerrtyilek.
aly	Ayeng arnkwek arrangkw anenharl,
aly	arrantherr ayenh arnkwa anthek. Ayeng
aly	arntetyirrek, arrantherr ayenh
aly	arntarnt-arenh. Ayeng tyayl-itwek
aly	anenharl, arrantherr atyeng-warl
aly	apetyek rwanng aretyek weth-lkwer
aly	Ingwel, Jesus kel alhek kwertengerl
aly	ikwerenh-rnem-akert amern tyenkerr
aly	Kwertengerl anyent Jesus-kenhel nayp
aly	arlpentyel atyetyart ilkwa ikwerenh
aly	warrkenh renh iylpa rlweth-arternek.
aly	Rernem renh ilek, “Ntwap renh
aly	ahayiwek anwekantherr-warl. Anantherr
aly	Rernem apelh ikwer-warl iwek,
aly	akapwert-anem renh arwerlel atwemel.
aly	Arnkwa mwerrel-anem ataperrelek.
aly	4-6 Alakenh-anyem, John,
aly	Baptise-emeley-angker apmer
aly	arlpaw-itwel anenh. Arnkwan ikwerenh
aly	John-kenh alta kamwerl-penh, pilt
aly	yenp-penh-akert. Ra intelty-rnem
aly	arlkwenh, ngkwarl arwengalker-then.
aly	Akngerr-anem apmer arrpanenh-they,
aly	apmer Judea-ampenyel, John-warl
aly	Jerusalem-areny-rnem-then. Rernem
aly	ilelhek John-ek, rernemarl apmwakert
aly	anenh. John angkek ingkerrenhek,
aly	“Anwantherr Akngey-angkwarrant-anem
aly	apentetyek. Angkepirrenh-arey
aly	apmwekety, Akngey-warl. Atha
aly	arrenhantherr baptise-emilem. Akngeyel
aly	apmwa arrekantherrety iwetyek.” Ra
aly	renh-rnem ingkerrenh baptise-emilek,
aly	Jesus ingwepenh-antey warl-they alhek,
aly	ra ament-areny Akngey-warl angketyek.
aly	Anayntileyel: Jesus anyelk-angkwarr
aly	angkek. “Alakenh-anyem-apeny artwa
aly	apmwernemel ayenh anterrkweyenh.
aly	Kwertengerl atyenh-rnem amern
aly	ipmelheyenh-anem, Akngeyant-anem rernem
aly	Artwa rlterrk aneyel warl ikwerenhel.
aly	Ingwerentyel nthakenh arnkwa ikwerenh
aly	ingkerrenh iney-angenh. Artwa anyent
aly	ingwer rlterrk apetyem warl
aly	ikwerenh-warl renh anterrkwemel, renh
aly	arertnemel, arnkwa ikwerenh ingkerrenh
aly	akngeynemel. Atyetyart Arrenty-kenh
aly	artwa rlterrk-apeny, ayengan ikwer-they
aly	rlterrk inngarl, ikwerenh-rnem
aly	Arrantherr Akngey-kenh angkek mwantyel
aly	awelhenty, inkwerelhemel, Akngeyel
aly	arrenhantherr intem-antey akaltyilem.”
aly	Rernem artwa renh arek, rarl mwerr-anem
aly	anenh, arnkwakert-anem, rarl mwerr-anem
aly	iterremel anenh. Rernem Jesus ikwerety
aly	aterirrek, itnweng rlterrk-akert-kety.
aly	Akngerr-warl Jesus-el itep arrernek
aly	irrpelthirrenharl-rnem-warl-then.
aly	Irrpetyapantarl ikwer inkwerelhekan.
aly	Rernemap arntety-penhan mwerrarl irrek.
aly	Amern-wenyarl nhanyeman, arrangkwarl.
aly	Atwerrpirrekerr-awaty renh-rnem
aly	Jesus-el renh-rnem ilek-penh, ra
aly	apmer-warl alpek kwertengerl
aly	ikwerenh-rnem-akert. Kwertengerl
aly	ikwerenhel-rnem renh ayernek, “Ntwa
aly	anwernenhantherr anayntiletyek angka
aly	irrkaty, ntwarl renh-rnem ilek-apeny.”
aly	Jesus-el renh-rnem ilek, “Mwantyel
aly	arntarnt-arelhenherr-arey Jew-kenh
aly	angkarl apenteyel-rnem-kety, Atyetyart
aly	Herod-kety. Ahelarl rernem arlwar
aly	rtneyel-kety, thwet-penh-apeny,
aly	apmwangkwarrarl rernem
aly	akalty-antheyel-kety.”
aly	Jesus atwarrerl-alhek apwert-they
aly	kwertengerl irrpetyap
aly	ikwerenh-rnem-akert. Jesus-el
aly	artwerilek kwertengerl ikwerenh-rnem,
aly	“Ingwer-rnemek ileyang
aly	aney-alpenherr-arey, arrantherrarl
aly	apwert irrwerlek arek-penh. Ayengarl
aly	Akngey-kenh Artwa Impenan. Ayeng
aly	ilwenty-penhel, ayengarl itethirremel,
aly	Akngey-warl irrwerl alpeyenh.
aly	Ikwer-penhan arrantherr
aly	akngerr-warl-anem iletyek.”
aly	“Artwa ilenhan atyeng ilkelheyelarl,
aly	ra atyeng irrpelthirrey-angenharl.”
aly	Artwa man-akert ra iterrek man-then
aly	ampwal-rnem-then ingkerrenh ra menty
aly	impen anterrkwetyek. Artwa ra
aly	amperrngirrek, “Nthakenh-angkwarr
aly	ayeng iteth intem-antey aneyenh, man
aly	akngerr-akert, ampwal akngerr-akert?”
aly	Jesus-el kwertengerl ikwerenh-atherr
aly	thwenek, ratherr arrwekel alhetyek,
aly	“Mpwelanthan alhenherr-atherr
aly	tawen-warl. Mpwelanthap tangkey
aly	ateralth rwep lhelhenherr-atherr
aly	arwerl-itwek atyeng-warl
aly	ayteng-akngey-alpenherr-atherr.
aly	Amern grapes ampeng awaketyek artwa
aly	Atyetyart ikwer. Amern grapes
aly	arntarnt-arenh-arenhel warrkenh
aly	ikwerenh ra thwenek ra anthetyek amern
aly	grapes artwa Atyetyart renh, ament
aly	arrpemarl. Amern grapes renh artwa
aly	warrkenh anyentel ra amern grapes ra
aly	arlperrtyilemel anthek artwa
aly	ingkerrenhek. Atyetyart anyent ra
aly	thwenek artwa warrkenh ikwerenh amern
aly	Artwa Moses-kenh anyent, ra Jesus-ek
aly	inkwerelhek, rarl angka arraty-angkwarr
aly	ilelhek. Ra angkek, “Ntwa
aly	arraty-angkwarr ingkerrenhek ileyel,
aly	Akngey anyent impen aneyel ingkerrenhek
aly	anwekantherr, ingwer ikwer-apeny
aly	aney-angenh arrangkw.
aly	Angwenhelarl arlta anyent renhan
aly	iterl-areyel? Akngey rantarl
aly	iterl-areyelan, anwantherr
aly	iterl-arey-angenharl. Arrantherr renh
aly	ayernetyek, perayirremel, rwenpelant
aly	arlta anyentan anwantherr atnyenetyek,
aly	irrerntel renh-rnem atwekerr,
aly	Jesus-el renh-rnem ilek arrpemarl,
aly	“Artwa anyentel anwekantherr-itwek
aly	amern arlkweyel, artwa anyent rarlap
aly	ayenh ahayiwem artwa
aly	ahelengkw-rnem-warl.
aly	Peter-el ingkern-they apentek
aly	ahelengkw-rnem Jesus-arl rernem
aly	atnwenheynek. Peter aney-alhek
aly	ahelengkw-rnem-itwel, warl ilkwa
aly	Atyetyart-kenh arrerenty. Rwel-anem
aly	rernem ingkerrenh anek,
aly	Atyetyart Pilate-el renh-rnem ayernek
aly	arrpemarl, “Angwenh athan
aly	tyarleweman? Atyetyart alkenh
aly	Jew-rnem-kenh arrantherr ileyel,
aly	nthakenharl atha renhan ilem?”
aly	Joseph-el arnkwa mwerr-angker
aly	payemelek, arrewaly renh ikwerenp
aly	akwernetyek, awenng-warl. Joseph-el
aly	arrewaly renh arwerl
aly	iylpeyl-atherr-they atwarrelhilek, renh
aly	mwerr-angkwarr awenng-warl akwernetyek.
aly	Arnkwa mwerrel-anem ataperrelek, ra
aly	intey awenng-warl akngek.
aly	Joseph-kenhel-rnem arrewaly renh intey
aly	awenng-warl akwernek, apwert ilkwa
aly	arriw-itwek arrkngertewemel. Intey
aly	awenng renh ilkwilek, awank-akerr,
aly	arrewaly-anem intey-warl
aly	Ingwer-ingweran Zechariah tyaty
aly	ilkwitwew Jerusalem-itwew warrkerrenh.
aly	Aherrety nhel ayntew
aly	ikwer-rnem-wenh-anem, warrkerreyew warl
aly	ikwer-itwew. Abijah-wenh-rneman
aly	rernemap artwa rltwernemarl.
aly	Ikwer-penhan ingwer-ingwer Mary-el
aly	apmer ikwerenh iwerl-alhew, Elizabeth
aly	arerl-alpeyew. Rap anamerl-antey apmer
aly	akely ikwer-warl alhew apwert
aly	ilkwangketyarr-warl, Judea-ampeny-itwew.
aly	John-wenh aynikw Zechariah rarl
aly	alakenh-anyem Inweng Mwerr-angker-akert
aly	Joseph tawen Nazareth-itwew
aly	anenheng-arey, Galilee-ampeny. Ran
aly	tawen Bethlehem-areny, Judea-ampeny.
aly	Apmer irrkaty-itwew atyetyart David-arl
aly	awank-akerr anenh-itwew, Joseph-anap
aly	David-wenh-anteyarl anew. Joseph-an
aly	Nazareth-they Bethlehem-warl alpew,
aly	itna pip-warl ingkwernelheyew.
aly	Artwamp ra angka mwerr-angkwarr angkew
aly	ikwer-atherr, rap Mary-ew-anem angkew,
aly	“Akngeyelan ampengkw ngkwenh thwenew,
aly	raw Israel-wenh-rnem ingkerrew
aly	angkeyew. Ingwer-rnem awelheyelarl-rnem
aly	Akngey-itwel aney-alpeyenh.
aly	Awelhey-angenh ingwer-rnem,
aly	ingwer-angkwarr rwelarl aney-alpeyenh.
aly	Ingwer-rnemel renh-rnem angka
aly	Akngey-wenh ilerl-aneyenh.
aly	Awelhey-angenh-rneman arlkarerreyenh,
aly	rernemap apmwel-ayeth angkerl-aneyenh
aly	Akngerr akarrerrenh John-warl apmer
aly	arrpanenh-they, ra renh-rnem kwaty-warl
aly	baptise-emel-aynteyew. John rap
aly	ikwer-rnem angkew, “Arrantherr
aly	irrtywerl-amperney-angker-rnem!
aly	Arrantherr apmwel-ayeth apmwel-ayeth
aly	apek alakenh iterreyel:
aly	David-an alerikw Jesse-wenh. Jesse-an
aly	alerikw Obed-wenh. Obed-an alerikw
aly	Boaz-wenh. Boaz-an alerikw Salmon-wenh.
aly	Salmon-an alerikw Nahshon-wenh.
aly	Ra ayenh thwenew, ingwer-rnem-then
aly	ileyew, Akngeyel renh-rnem
aly	arntarnt-aremarl, ingwer-rnemelarl
aly	apmwel-ayeth ikwer-rnem
aly	Rarl akalty-anthenh-penh, rap Simon-ew
aly	angkew, “Rtnwa nhenhel alherlewey
aly	kwaty intwer-warl-awaty. Ntwa ngkweng
aly	apelty-rnemel-then netting kwaty-warl
aly	atwarrelhelenh-arey, aylperr-rnem
aly	Jesus-el angka ilew renh-rnem alakenh:
aly	“Arrantherr iterl-areyel, artwethen
aly	arelh-then arlwentherrem
aly	anewantherrenh-angkwarr. Artwa
aly	arlwentherreyew-athath, ikwer
aly	apelty-rnem apetyem apmer
aly	ikwerenh-warl, rernemap tyenkerr-anem
aly	arlkwem ingkerrenhel. Rernemap
aly	arlkweyel aleth-antey, rarl
aly	aneyel-awaty ikwer-rnemel-arleng.
aly	“Kel-anem arrantherran aleyan
aly	irrpetyapant apek atnyen-ayntem,
aly	Akngeyan arrewantherr inkwerelhemarl.
aly	Akngey-wenh-anem arrantherran. Ran
aly	Atyetyart arrewantherrenh, rap
aly	arrenhantherrenh arntarnt-areyenh.
aly	Jesus-el angka ingwer-anem ikwer-rnem
aly	ilenh. “Arwerl mwerran amern
aly	mwerr-akertarl, arwerl ingweran
aly	paytey-angketyarrarl amern apmwakertarl.
aly	Awank-akerr Akngeyel angkakert ikwerenh
aly	Malachi ilew, rarl John ahern
aly	nhenh-warl-tangkwel thweneyew, Jesus
aly	renh thweneyew-athath. Akngey alakenh
aly	Jesus angkew arelh ikwer, “Ngarl
aly	atyeng iterrew, Akngeyelap apmwa
aly	ngkweng-wety irrarlkew. Arlka
aly	mwerr-anem aney-alpa.”
aly	Rernem apatemel atererrew, rernemap
aly	angkerrew, “Pwertay! Artwa
aly	ilek-apenyarlap nhenhan? Rwarrel-then
aly	kwatyel-then renh awem!”
aly	Ra kwey itep-they antwerrkew,
aly	angkew-anem, “Kwey akwenta!”
aly	Wik anyent-penh Jesus alhew apwert
aly	irrwerl-warl, Akngey-warl-athek
aly	angkaynteyew-anem. Rap kwertengerl-rnem
aly	irrpety atnwenhew, Peter
aly	awayenheng-atherr James-then John-then.
aly	Rernem iwerrel-antey alperlewenh
aly	Jerusalem-warl, artwa anyent rernem
aly	arey-alhew. Artwa rap angkew Jesus-ew,
aly	“Atha ngenh apenteyew,
aly	ingweram-angkwarr nga alhenty.”
aly	Jesus-el artepang arenhey-alpew, ra
aly	angkew kwertengerl-rnem 12
aly	ikwer-rnemant, “Arrantherr
aly	inkwerelheyel-anem, aleyan
aly	arrantherrarl anngel areyel ilek-ilek
aly	mwerr-angker-rnem. Aleyant Akngeyel
aly	lwewarrernew alakenh.
aly	Jesus-an angkew ikwer-rnem, “Nhanyem
aly	atha arrewantherr angka ilem. Nga apek
aly	alhem ampepenyel warl
aly	ngkwenh-rnem-wenh-warl, amernew
aly	aparelheyew. Ntwa apek ayernem alakenh,
aly	‘Apmarleyay! Amern atyeng antha,
aly	Jesus-el angka ingwer-anem ilenh.
aly	“Kwenyel anantherr lyenenty arrtyem.
aly	Anantherr nthakenh arlengarrel
aly	artey-angenh, nthakenh pantyel
aly	artey-angenh, arrangkw. Anantherr
aly	irrwerl tywenem, ingwerentyel anaynt
aly	arenhey-alhem warl-itwew, rernemap
aly	Arrantherr apek atyeng apmwel-ayeth
aly	angkem, Artwa Akngey-wenh Innga ikwer.
aly	Arrantherrap Akngey-warl alakenh
aly	angkem, ‘Akngeyay! Apmwa atyeng-wety
aly	irrarlka.’ Rap apmwa renh irrarlkem
aly	arrewantherr-wety. Rap arrewantherr
aly	awakelhey-angenharl, arrenhantherrenh
aly	angkep atweyewan, arrangkwarl.
aly	Arrantherr apek apmwel-ayeth angkem
aly	Inweng Mwerr-angker Akngey-wenh ikwer.
aly	Akngeyelanap nthakenh apmwa renh
aly	irrarlkey-angenharl arrewantherr-wety,
aly	arrangkwarl. Arrantherrap apmwa
aly	ikwer-akert-antey anayntem intem-antey.
aly	Peter-el Jesus ayernew, “Ingkartay,
aly	12 anwernantherrant iterrem angka
aly	nhenhew? Ingkerrenh-antey apek iterrem
aly	Arelh arntety anyent anenh. Ran artep
aly	apmwa alhenh, nthekwern
aly	arratyerrey-angenh, arrangkw. Arrenty
aly	anyentel renh arntetyelew awank-akerr,
aly	Artwa ilkwerneman akeleyterrew,
aly	arrangkw tyerney-angenh. Jesus-elan
aly	artwa arntety arnew, renh mwerrelew.
aly	Rap artwa arntety-penh thwenew,
aly	mwerr-anem alpeyew apmer ikwerenh-warl.
aly	Jesus-an angkew-anem ingkerrew,
aly	“Artwa warl artey-angker ra
aly	apwert-tangkwel arew, mwanty iterremel.
aly	Artwa ilkwa wethan iterrew artwa
aly	ikwerenh-rnem ahawarr-rnemew-tangkwel
aly	mwanty. Ingwerenty ayenh apenteyew, rap
aly	alakenh-tangkwel iterreyew mwanty, ra
aly	angkeperrewerr atyeng-wety. Ra
aly	iterremer, ‘Ingwer-rnemel ayenh
aly	irrwernewerr.’ Rap atyeng-tangkwel
aly	iterremer. Ikwerenh-rnemewan ra alyepel
aly	iterremer. Ampwal-rneman ra
aly	iwerlelpemer, ayenhant-anem
aly	Alerikw alkenhanap ahelerrew, rarl
aly	awewel. Ran warl kwen aylpey-angenh,
aly	arrangkw. Ra akethel-antey ahelerremel
aly	rtnenh. Aynikw ikwerenh tyerrelhew warl
aly	kwen-they, rap ikwer angkew
aly	arternp-antey. ‘Ilek-wetyarl ntwa
aly	arleng-they-antey arey-alpew? Apetyaw,
aly	arlkweyew anewantherr-itwew.’
aly	rap aney-alpew, rwa intemarl ampeyelel.
aly	Rap pwarrkerrenh artewentyel innga.
aly	Arleng-they ra arew, Abraham-then
aly	Nthakenh ingwerentyak angkey-angenharl,
aly	‘Arenherr-arey arrantherr! Akngeyan
aly	apetyew, atyetyart yanh-areny-rnemew
aly	aneyew!’ Alakenh-wenyarlap ran.
aly	Akngeyan kel atyetyart aneyel
aly	ikwerenh-rnemew, rernemarl rlterrk
aly	iterreyel ikwer. Arrantherr nthakenh
aly	renh arey-angenh anngel, arrangkw.”
aly	Artwa apwert akarreley-angker ranap
aly	nyerrerremel arleng innga rtnenh. Ran
aly	ilkelhew, angkeperreyew
aly	Akngey-warl-athek. Rap kwenerremel
aly	alakenh angkew, ‘Akngeyay,
aly	amperrngerra atyeng! Ayengan apmwa
aly	Jesus-an angkew ikwer, “Annga
aly	altywerela! Aranem ntwa! Ntwa
aly	iterl-arew, atha ngenh
aly	mwerreley-angker, ntwap mwerr-anem
aly	Rap angkew, ‘Ingwer ileng-rnem-alew
aly	atyeng-wety arlkarerreyel-rnem?
aly	Arrantherr renh-rnem iterl-areyelarl.
aly	Rernem artwa atyetyart ilkwa ilew,
aly	ayenh arrernewerr atyetyart apmer
aly	nhenhew. Ingwer-rnem atyeng-wety
aly	ilkelhey-angenh irreyel-rnem, atyetyart
aly	arrernewerr, renh-rnem anamerl
aly	akngetyenh-arey nhewarl. Atha areyew,
aly	arrantherr renh-rnem ipmew
aly	Rernemap tyernew alakenh: “Anantherr
aly	iterl-arey-angenh, angwenhelarl John
aly	Ayteyikwel-anem arelh renh inew, rap
aly	ahaperrenhew, ampa ikwer-atherr
aly	Rernem arrewantherr alakenh mpwarem,
aly	arrantherran angka atyeng-akert ilemer
aly	alhewer, atererrey-angenhel.
aly	Judas-an angkew, “Yew-yew.” Ran
aly	intem alakenh iterrerl-apenh,
aly	“Ilengerarl atha renh-rnem ilanthem,
aly	Jesus antwerrkeyew? Irrpetyapantarl
aly	ikwer-itwel aneyeleng-arey apek?”
aly	Rernem tyernew, “Ya, ingwer-rnemel
aly	anenhantherrenh arntarnt-arew
aly	Artwa ahawarr-rnemel Jesus antwerrkenh,
aly	rernemap arrkentelhelemel renh atwenh.
aly	Rerneman arlkalhelerrenh, “Arwerl
aly	iylpeyl-atherr-warl atantha! Arwerl
aly	iylpeyl-atherr-warl atantha!”
aly	Rap ikwerenh-rnem-akertel arwerl-they
aly	atwarrelhelew, arnkwa arlterel-anem
aly	ataperrelew, akwernemel awenng-warl.
aly	Awennganap intey-penh, ingwerentyelarl
aly	akalthew apwert impalth-they. Intey ra
aly	arrangkwarl ayntenh, ingwerenty
aly	akwerney-angenh-antey.
aly	Rap renh-atherr akalty-anthenh
aly	arraty-angkwarr, anaynt-then ilenh
aly	angka irrkaty ikwer-akert. Angka renh
aly	Akngey-wenh-rnemel-then ingkwernew
aly	Akngey-wenh pip-warl.
aly	Angka ikwerenh-angkwarr ra iterrek,
aly	ilek-ilek arrpmernetyek. Anwantherr
aly	itethirretyek ikwer-angkwarrant. Angka
aly	ikwerenh-angkwarr ahern-areny
aly	ingkerrenhel renh iterl-aretyek.
aly	Jesus-el renh-atherr artepang arek,
aly	ratherrarl renh apentenh. Rap angkek,
aly	Jesus ra arek-penh, ra ikwer-rnem
aly	ahelirrek, rernemarl apmwel-areth
aly	Akngey-kenh warl-itwek tharlemilenh
aly	aker ilek-ilek. Whip ra mpwarek
aly	rwep-penh. Artwernem tyaty-they ra
aly	irrentek yep-yep-rnem-then
aly	pwelek-rnem-then, taypel-rnem
aly	akngartewemel, man-angketyarr. Man
aly	John-kenh kwertengerl-rnem ikwer-warl
aly	alhek, “Akalty-anthenh-anthenhay!
aly	Artwan weth ntwa iterl-areyel? Nga
aly	ikwer-itwel anenharl lher Jordan-itwek
aly	intwar-ampeny, ntwap ingkerrenh-anem
aly	ikwer akalty-anthek. Aley ra
aly	ingwer-rnem baptise-emileyel.
aly	Ingkerrenh ikwer-warl akarrirreyel!”
aly	Jesus-el arelh renh tyernek, “Atyeng
aly	awelha. Ingwer-ingeran ingkerrenharl
aly	apmer arrpanenhel rernem Akngeyek
aly	kwenirreyenh arraty-angkwarr, apwert
aly	Gerizim-wenyant-anem
aly	Jerusalem-wenyant-anem.
aly	Arlta ikwerel-antey, warrkenh
aly	artwekenh-rnem apetyek ikwer-warl
aly	angkakert. “Alerengkw ngkwenh
aly	Alakenh-anyem ra Artwa Impen ikwerenh
aly	ayenh atyetyart arrernek, atha
aly	atyenh-rnem akngaketyek, apmwernem-they.
aly	Rernem amern arlkwek-penh, Jesus-el
aly	kwertengerl-rnem ilek, “Amern ampety
aly	ilenh-rnem aker-rnem-then
aly	akwetyenherr-arey arimpey-angenh.”
aly	Akngey rant ingkerrenh atnwenhey-alhem
aly	atyeng-warl! Akngey rantey ayenh
aly	thwenek ahern nhenh-warl. Rernem
aly	atyeng-angkwarr apententy, atha
aly	renh-rnem ipmepenh akemelhileyenh arlta
aly	Nthakenh anyelkel mpwarey-angenh
aly	ingkerrenhelap ngenh iterl-arayntetyek
aly	anaynt. Ahern nhareny ingkerrenhel
aly	ngenh tnaketyek ntwa ilek-ilek
aly	mpwarey-angker. Ntwa ingkerrenh-itwek
aly	anngetherr mpwaretyek!”
aly	Arlta 7-penh, arlta ingkern impen
aly	ikwerel rernem tyenkerr arlkwenh-antey,
aly	Jesus rtnerl-alhek atayel arlkemel,
aly	“Arrantherr angkethakw irrenty,
aly	atyeng-warl apetyenherr-arey!
aly	15-16 Arrantherr ayenh
aly	iterl-arey-angenh, arrantherr atyeng
aly	tyel-angkerreyelan, apmwamwam,
aly	ahern-areny-kenh-angkwarr apenteyel.
aly	Akngeyelant ingkerrenh akngakeyenh,
aly	warrk atyenh-weny. Akngeyel ayenh
aly	thwenek ahern nhenh-warl. Alakenh
aly	aylernak ingkerrenh akngaketyek
aly	Atha arrekantherr angka innga
aly	ilekarl-penh, arrantherr atyeng
aly	awelhey-angenharl irrpeltherremel!
aly	Arrantherr ayenh apentey-angenh.
aly	Rernem ilterrenh ikwer-they. Pharisee
aly	ingwer-rnem angkerrek-anem, “Artwa
aly	rarl artwa nhenh mwerrilekan arlta
aly	Saturday-el, ltyerrey-angker impen
aly	ikwerel. Alakenh apmwarl! Ra
aly	Ingkart-kenh angkakert-wenyarl!”
aly	Pharisee ingwer-rneman angkerrenh,
aly	“Artwa ra angkakert Akngey-kenh apek,
aly	Jesus-elap angkan ikwer-rnemek ilenh,
aly	rernemap iterl-arey-angenh, “Ilekek
aly	nhan Jesus-arl angkeyel wenh?”
aly	Arrantherr ayenh tnaketyek atharl
aly	Akngey atyenh-kenh warrk mpwareyel.
aly	Jesus ikwer-warl angkek, “Ayengarl
aly	ran ipmepenh itetheley-angkeran.
aly	Ingwerel ayenh tnakenty, ra intem-antey
aly	Ikwer-penhan Jew-kenh atyetyart-rnem
aly	iterrenh, nthakenh rernem Jesus renh
aly	Akngeyay! Arraty-angkwarr alakenhey,
aly	rernem ngenh iterl-arayntetyek, nga
aly	rlterrk ilkwakert aneyel.”
aly	Jesus ikwer-warl angkek, “Nga
aly	arlkarirrenty, atyenh-wenyarl nga!”
aly	Arrantherr iwerr iterl-areyel, ayengarl
aly	ikwer-warl alpeyenh.”
aly	Mwerr arrantherr arraty aneyel, angka
aly	atyenh-angkwarr ayntarrp-iley-angenh.”
aly	Aleyan atha arrekantherr ileyel
aly	arrwekel arrantherr angka nhanyem
aly	iylpangketyek, atharl arrenhantherr
aly	arrwekel ilek-angkwarr,
aly	Jesus-el kwertengerl-rnem ilek-penh, ra
aly	alker-warl-athek itnywenek, ra
aly	Akngey-warl angkemel, “Akngeyay!
aly	Ayengan alerengkw ngkwenh. Arlta atyenh
aly	arrer-anem ayeng ilwetyek. Ayenh
aly	rlterrkila, ayeng rlterrk ilkwakert
aly	anetyek ngkweng-apeny, ingkerrenhel
aly	ngenh iterl-aretyek ngarl rlterrk innga
aly	Jesus ra ilelhek, “Ayengarlap ra.”
aly	Judas ra ikwer-rnem-itwek rtnenh.
aly	Pilate angkek ikwer-rnem, “Ayeng
aly	arrekantherrenh-angkwarrant arrantherr
aly	tyatemiletyek renh.”
aly	Irlkenty rernem Jesus renh arwerl
aly	iylpeyl-atherr-itwek atanthek naylel,
aly	ra ilwetyek. Artwa ingwer atherr arwerl
aly	iylpeyl-atherr-warl atanthek arrpemarl
aly	naylel. Irrkerant-atherr-itwek Jesus
aly	John intey-warl aylpenhek arrpemarl. Ra
aly	rag-rnemant arek arrpemarl. Ra
aly	arek-penh ra Jesus renh tnakek-anem,
aly	rarl ipmepenh itethirrek.
aly	Ingwer-rnem ikwer angkek, “Anwantherr
aly	ngkweng-angkwarr alhem arrpemarl,
aly	irrpeng-rnem inayntetyek.” Kel rernem
aly	kwaty alay irrker-warl alhek, rtnwewarl
aly	nganerl-alhek. Ingwel aleth-antey ywarn
aly	arrkernelhenh, irrpeng
aly	inetyek-arrpantey, arrangkw.
aly	Jesus-el ilek-ilek mpwarek ahern
aly	nhenh-itwek. Nthakenh ingwerentyel
aly	ingkerrenh alakenh pip-warl
aly	ingkwerney-angenh, arrangkw. Angka
aly	ilek-ilek akngerr, nthakenh
aly	ingwerentyel ilek-ilek
aly	Ingwer-rnem Jew lyerteny-rneman,
aly	ingwer-rnem Jew akely-penh-rnem,
aly	Crete-areny, Arabia-areny. Rernem
aly	angkerreyel, ‘Akngey rlterrk
aly	Rernem-anem Peter-ek awelhek.
aly	Rernem-anem Peter-warl apetyek,
aly	renh-rnem baptise-emeletyek. Arlta
aly	ikwerel-antey, Akngeyel artwa 3,000
aly	innga anyentelhilek kwertengerl
aly	Akngeyel alerikw ikwerenh
aly	arrekantherr-warl-tangkwel thwenek,
aly	arrantherr ikwer-warl angkepirretyek
aly	Artwa ingwer-rnem-warl antheynek,
aly	arrangkwarl anenh-rnemek, man-weny
aly	Peter kwertengerl ingwer-rnem-then
aly	angkek, “Ahern-arenyek
aly	awelhey-angenh, Akngeyekant awelheyel.
aly	Stephen-el renh-rnem ilek,
aly	“Atyenh-rnemay, atyeng
aly	awelhenherr-arey. Akngey
aly	anwekantherrenh rarl rlterrk ilkwakert
aly	aneyel, rant Abraham ikwer aremirrek,
aly	rarl apmer Mesopotamia anenh-warl, ra
aly	apmer Haran-warl alpey-alenty.
aly	‘Ayeng Akngey ngkweng anem,
aly	Abraham-kenh Isaac-kenh, Jacob-kenh
aly	Akngey anem.’ Moses-anem aterel
aly	arrewek. Ranem akapwert kwenirrek,
aly	arwerl renh arekerr.
aly	Jesus-arl apenteyel-rnem apmer
aly	arrpanenh-warl arlperrtyirrek
aly	Jerusalem-they. Rernem apmer-areny-rnem
aly	akalty-anthey-alhek, angka Jesus-kenh.
aly	Artwa ranem Philip renh ayernek,
aly	“Atyeng anayntila, rernem angwenh
aly	atwem, rernem yep-yep atwem-apeny?
aly	Angkakert arrwekeleny apek, artwa
aly	Ingwer-ingeran, Jew-rnem angkerrenh
aly	renh ipmek atwetyek.
aly	Arlta ampepel rernem apetyenhel-antey
aly	apmer Joppa-warl. Peter nganek warl
aly	irrwerl-warl Akngey-warl angketyek.
aly	Jesus ra apmer arrpanenh-itwek
aly	mwerrilek, ra arrenty-akert-rnem
aly	mwerrilek, Akngeyarl ikwer-itwek anek,
aly	Akngey-kenh Itnweng rlterrk-akert.
aly	Anwantherr arek ra ingwerek-ingwer
aly	Jew-rnem mwerrilek Jerusalem-itwek.
aly	Rernem renh ipmek atwek, arwerl
aly	iylpeyl-atherr-itwek.
aly	Jerusalem tyaty-areny ingwer-rnemel
aly	awek, rernemarl Ingkart-warl
aly	angkepirrek, rernem-anem Barnabas renh
aly	thwenek Antioch tawen-warl.
aly	Renh awemel, ingkerrenh rernem arlkek,
aly	“Akngey anwekantherr angkeyel,
aly	altyerrek-arrpantey inkwerelhek Herod
aly	Akngeyel Jesus renh ipmepenh
aly	Ranem Paul awek rarl ingwer-rnem
aly	akalty-antherl-apenh. Artwa renh aremel
aly	Paul ra iterl-arek rarl Jesus renh
aly	tnakenh, renh irrpelthel mwerriletyek.
aly	Barnabas Paul-atherr angkenharl
aly	tyaty-arenyel-rnem renh-atherr akatemel
aly	awenh. Ratherr renh-rnem ilek
aly	Akngeyelarl renh-atherr rlterrkilek,
aly	ilek-ilek mpwaretyek, arntety-rnem
aly	mwerriletyek, Jew-weny-rnem-itwek.
aly	Lystra-areny-rnem-then
aly	Iconium-areny-rnem-then rernem
aly	ingkerrenhel Timothy tnakek, Timothy-ek
aly	Tyayl-areny artwamp ra Paul
aly	Silas-atherr atnwenhek warl
aly	ikwerenh-warl. Ikwer-penhan Paul Silas
aly	ratherr renh Akngey-kenh angka
aly	akalty-anthek warl-areny
aly	ingwer-rnem-then ingkerrenh-antey,
aly	Athens-areny-rnem akngerr arlta
aly	awelherlenty-akngenh, angka
aly	ingweram-ingwer ikwer-penh angkerretyek.
aly	Court-they tyerrelhemel, rernem-anem
aly	artwa Sosthenes aketh-ampenyek atwek.
aly	Sosthenes ra atyetyart Jew-rnem-kenh
aly	tyaty akely-itwek anenh. Gallio ra
aly	Jesus-arl apenteyel ingwerel-rnem-anem
aly	akngerr ingwer-rnem akalty-anthek,
aly	Akngey-kenh rlterrk-akertel angka
aly	arlpimp-anem ilek, angka
aly	ingwerek-ingwer-warl.
aly	Warl irrwerl-ampenyel anwantherr
aly	anyentirrek lyenenty impen-rnem-itwek.
aly	Renh-rnem iwerl-alhek, anwantherr
aly	rtnwewarl nganerl-alhek apmer Cos-warl
aly	artarnpenhemel. Ikwer-theyan arlta
aly	ingwerel apmer Rhodes-warl anper-alhek.
aly	Ikwer-theyan anwantherr Patara
aly	Akngerr rernem renh ipmek
aly	atwetyek-arrpantey iytarr-akngek.
aly	Ingwerel Rome-areny ahelengkw atyetyart
aly	renh ilek, “Jerusalem-areny-rnem ahel
aly	Rernem akalty arrpemarl atha arternpel
aly	arenh, rernemarl Stephen renh ipmek
aly	atwek. Stephen irrkaty renh rarl
aly	akngerrek arraty Akngey-kenh angka
aly	ilerl-apenh. Ayeng inkwerelhek
aly	rernemarl renh ipmek atwek. Athan
aly	aytarek arrpemarl. Atha arnkwernem
aly	ahelengkw-rnem-kenh arntarnt-arek.’
aly	Atyetyart ra anthety renh atnwenhek,
aly	ratherr angkerretyek. Ra atyetyart
aly	irlkentyek-artwey renh ilek, “Paul-el
aly	artwa anthety nhenh thwenek,
aly	atyeng-angkwarr, renharl Paul-el
aly	Rernem akalty, rernem ayenh apalel arwa
aly	Ayeng Jerusalem-itwek anenh-antey,
aly	tyaty-areny atyetyart-rnem-then
aly	Jew-rnem atyetyart-rnem-then rernem
aly	atyeng-warl apetyek. Rernem ayenh
aly	ayernek, atha anyent renh ipmek
aly	King Agrippa, ayeng kel Ingkartek
aly	awelhek. Ra atyeng aremirrek.
aly	Rtnwa ikwer-itwek rwepel arertnek,
aly	ngkweltyirrekerr. Awerel aleth
aly	akngartewekerr rernem aterirrek, rtnwa
aly	ra ahernel mwernelhekerr, apmer
aly	Libya-itwek. Rernem kalikw akely-anem
aly	artelh-aynek, rtnwa ra mwerr-angkwarr
aly	Apmer-areny-rnemel arek, rernem alakenh
aly	angkerrenh, “Artwa nhenhan artwa
aly	ahelengkwarl. Ra nthakenh iteth
aly	aney-angenh, lyert ilwem.”
aly	Ranem arrenhantherr rlwanek, arrantherr
aly	ikwerenh-rnem anayntetyek,
aly	Jesus-kenh-rnem ingkerr.
aly	6-7 Arlta ingkern ikwerenhel, ra
aly	ingkerrenh ilek-ilek mwerr-angker
aly	antheyenh, rernemarl ikwerenh-angkwarr
aly	apentenh. Mwerr-angkwarr apententy, ran
aly	iterreyel intem-antey anayntetyek.
aly	Akngeyel renh itethileyenh arrpemarl
aly	Rernem ingwer-rnem atwetyek
aly	18-20 Arleng-alenty Abraham ampek
aly	mpwelhenh ywarn-antey, ipantey,
aly	renh-atherr anthetyek. Ra artwamp
aly	innganem irrek, aherrety 100-anem,
aly	apekap-anem irrek, Sarah-then-antey.
aly	Abraham Akngeyek irrpelthirrey-angenh,
aly	mwerr Akngeyek awelhenh, rarl renh
aly	arrwekel ilek. Ra Akngey tnakek innga.
aly	Jesus rarl ywerrek-apeny, anwantherr
aly	ywerrem arrpemarl. Anwantherr iteth
aly	aneyel ikwer-angkwarr. Jesus rarl
aly	itethirrek-apeny, anwantherr itethirrem
aly	17-18 Ayeng ywarn arrkernelheyel
aly	mwerr-angkwarr anetyek-arrpantey. Ayeng
aly	akalty, arlka ayeng rlterrk-weny, ayeng
aly	ywarn-antey mwerr anetyek
aly	arrkernelheyel. Ayeng
aly	apmwelhileyel-antey.
aly	26-27 Anwantherr rlterrk-wenyarl,
aly	anwantherr apateyel, Akngey renh
aly	ayernetyek. Itnwengel anwenhantherr
aly	rlterrkileyel. Itnweng ra Akngey-warl
aly	angkem. Itnwengel anwekantherr katy
aly	ayerneyel arraty-angkwarr. Akngeyel
aly	anwenhantherr iterl-areyel, anwantherr
aly	iterreyel-angkwarr. Akngeyel
aly	anwenhantherr aketh-antey areyel
aly	22-23 Alakenh-apeny Akngeyan. Ra
aly	ingwer-rnem mpwarek, ikwer-rnem
aly	ahelirrek, renh-rnem
aly	ywerrelhiletyek-anek. Ranem renh-rnem
aly	menty amek-arek. Ranem ilkelheyel
aly	rernem ikwerenh-angkwarrant
aly	apenterl-ayntetyek. Ingwer-rnem ra
aly	arrwekel-antey rlwanek, ra renh-rnem
aly	arntarnt-aretyek. Alakenh ingkerrenhel
aly	renh iterl-aretyek rarl rlterrk innga
aly	Israel-areny-rnem-ek Isaiah-el
aly	ingkwernek, “Ayeng ywarn
aly	arrkernelhenh renh-rnem
aly	arratyiletyek-arrpantey, iylpelant
aly	rernem aweyel, awelhey-angenh. Ayeng
aly	ingkerrenh-itwek mwerrant-arey
aly	Aray, Akngeyel ingkerrenh ilem, rernem
aly	arraty awelhey-angenh anem. Ranem
aly	ahern-areny ingkerrenh mwantyel
aly	Tax maney anthetyek mwerr-angkwarr.
aly	Ntwa man alhelenty, pwekap ngkwenh
aly	areyilenty, ntwa renh angkep anthem,
aly	atyetyart-rnemek awelhemel
aly	Anwantherr ikwer-rnem iterretyek
aly	arrpemarl. Anwantherr renh-rnem
aly	arntarnt-aretyek, rernem Akngey renh
aly	Ikwer-they Akngey iterreyel-angkwarr
aly	apek, ayeng-anem arrekantherr-warl
aly	inkwerelhemel irrkngerney alhetyek,
aly	arrekantherr-itwel ilkwatherr anetyek.
aly	Akngey-kenh angka mwerr-angker
aly	Jesus-akert inngan aynteyel, anyent
aly	impen. Ingwer-rnem arrkernelheyel,
aly	Akngey-kenh angkekety arrenhantherr
aly	ilpertiletyek, arrantherr
aly	Atha renh-rnem kel apentey-angenh.
aly	Christ-kenh anyent-angkwarr atha
aly	apentem alhewer. Ayeng ipmelhem
aly	Jew-rnem-kenh angka apentekerr.
aly	Arrantherr apek Jesus Christ-kenh,
aly	aleyan arrantherr Abraham-kenh-rnem
aly	arrpemarl, anyent-angkwarr apenteyel.
aly	Akngeyel arrenhantherr alhelek,
aly	arrenhantherr arntarnt-aretyek
aly	arrpemarl, rarl artwamp Abraham
aly	renh-tangkwel alhelek-apeny, renh
aly	Christ-el anwenhantherr anyentelhilek,
aly	arrantherr ikwerenh-angkwarr, alhewer
aly	anayntetyek. Jew-rnem-angkwarr
aly	Arrantherr Akngey-kenh angkakert
aly	arntarnt-arayntetyek, ilek-ilek
aly	anthayntetyek, man anthayntetyek
aly	Akngey-kenh-angkwarr.
aly	Arrantherr Akngey-wenh-angkwarr aneyew,
aly	angka mwerr renh rlterrk tnakemel.
aly	Arrantherr-anem angkew
aly	iylpelerrey-angenh, Akngeyel
aly	arrewantherr arrernew, arrantherr iteth
aly	intem-antey anaynteyew. Akngeyel ayenh
aly	rlwanew, angka mwerr-angker Akngey-wenh
aly	ilerl-apaynteyew ahern-areny
aly	Arrantherr-anem arnterr iterreyew
aly	irrwerl-areny-wenh-angkwarr,
aly	ahern-areny-wenh-angkwarr-weny.
aly	7-8 Artwa Tychicus-el ra atyenh aneyel
aly	arrpemarl, Akngeyew iylpareth. Ra
aly	Akngeyew warrkerreyel arrpemarl.
aly	Athanem renh arrewantherr-warl thwenem,
aly	ra atyeng-iperr ingkerrenhew ileyew,
aly	arrenhantherrenh arternpeleyew, atyeng
aly	Arrantherr iterl-areyelarl,
aly	anantherrarl arrenhantherrenh
aly	arntarnt-arenh, aynelikwarl alerikw
aly	ikwerenh-rnem arntarnt-arem-apeny.
aly	Alakenh. Akalty-antherl-apenh
aly	rlterrkelemel arrenhantherrenh.
aly	Mwerr-angkwarr aynteyel, arraty-anem
aly	anaynteyew akeleyt. Ingwer-rnem
aly	irrwerney-angenh, ingwer-rnemew-then
aly	tyel-angkey-angenh. Mwerr-angkwarr
aly	arrpemarl alakenh aynteyel. Arrantherr
aly	warrkerremer, apwert inaynteyew,
aly	arnkwethen amern-then payemeleyew.
aly	Anantherr ilanthew alakenh
aly	Atha Paul-el pip nhenh angkakert
aly	thweneyel. Atha Silas-el
aly	Timothy-el-anem anantherrarl angka
aly	nhenh ingkwerneyel arrewantherr
aly	Thessalonica-areny-rnemew. Arrantherran
aly	Akngey-wenh-rnemarl, Ingkart Jesus
aly	Christ-arl apenteyel-rnemarl.
aly	Arrewantherr-itwelarl anenheng-arey,
aly	anantherr alakenh arratyelenh:
aly	“Ingwerentyarl warrk-they ipmelhem,
aly	rap amern-wenyarl aneman.”
aly	Artwa anthety-rnem ilay, rernem
aly	arternpel ilayntetyek, arraty-angkwarr
aly	Christian ingwerelan apwert akngerr
aly	apek atnyenem. Nthakenh ra tangkemel
aly	apwert-akert aney-angenh. Ra
aly	iterl-aremer arrpemarl, Akngeyarl
aly	ikwer-then artewentyel ilkelheyel.
aly	Alakenh iterl-aremel ra inkwerelhemel
aly	anemer arrpemarl. Artwa apwert
aly	akngerr-akert ra pretty-apeny,
aly	ahernelarl rtneyel-apeny.
aly	Anyent apek ikwer angkem,
aly	“Arntarnt-arelh-aynta! Arnkwa
aly	ntywety-warl aylpaynta, amern-then
aly	arlkwaynta!” Nthekwern alakenh
aly	angkey-angenh. Arwarl arrakertelant
aly	arrantherr angkeyel alakenhan, innga
aly	anthey-angenh irrepern ikwer. Ran
aly	aneyel-antey atheperreyel angayakw.
aly	Ran anenhantherrenh kanper
aly	iterl-areyel. Ra iterl-arem, anantherr
aly	ilek-ilek angwarey-angker.
aly	Alakenhewarlap ra anenhantherrenh
aly	mpwarewan. Angka ikwerenhelanap
aly	alakenh-anyemarl aynteyel.
aly	Alakenhan mwerrarl. Akngeyel apmwa
aly	ikwer-wety irrarlkem-anem
aly	awakelhey-angenhel, iylpelerremel-anem
