eng	First of all, a long time ago, God made
eng	everything. He made everything that is
eng	in the sky, and he made everything that
eng	is on the earth. God made all the
eng	things that are everywhere.
eng	When this all happened, there was night
eng	time and there was morning time. That
eng	God put the man into the garden and
eng	gave him a job. He had to look after
eng	the garden and make sure all the plants
eng	grew strong and healthy.
eng	The woman said, “That snake tricked
eng	me. That is why I ate that fruit.”
eng	If you try to grow plants in the ground
eng	nothing will grow for you. You will go
eng	away from me. And you will walk around
eng	in lots of places, but you will have no
eng	Then Adam lived for another 800 years
eng	after Seth was born, and he had more
eng	He called his son Noah. Lamech said,
eng	“God cursed the ground. We have to
eng	work hard to dig the ground, but Noah
eng	will help us to be happy, even though
eng	we have to work hard.”
eng	After that, God said to Noah, “You
eng	are the only man that lives the right
eng	way. Get your family and take them into
eng	Then, 6 weeks later, Noah opened the
eng	window in the top of the big boat. He
eng	wanted to find out if the water went
eng	down, and if a bird could find some dry
eng	And I promise this to all the animals
eng	that live on the earth, too, all the
eng	birds, and all the quiet animals, and
eng	all the wild animals. I promise this to
eng	all of the animals that came out of the
eng	The people that came from Ham split up
eng	into different tribes. Each one had
eng	their own language, and their own land.
eng	Ham’s sons were Cush, and Egypt, and
eng	Those were all the families, and
eng	tribes, and nations that came from
eng	Shem. Each one had their own country
eng	and their own language.
eng	Serug lived for 200 years after he had
eng	Nahor, and he had more sons and
eng	So in that family there were 14 fathers
eng	from Abraham to David.
eng	Eliud was the father of Eleazar.
eng	He will really look after God’s
eng	“People will say that God’s special
eng	person comes from Nazareth.”
eng	So John baptised Jesus, and as Jesus
eng	came up out of the water the sky opened
eng	up, and Jesus saw the spirit of God
eng	coming down like a pigeon, and landing
eng	“It will happen in the land that
eng	belongs to the Zebulun tribe and the
eng	Some people never want to do bad
eng	things. These people will see God and
eng	they will be really happy.
eng	But now I’m telling you this,
eng	husbands and wives have to stay married
eng	to each other. Only if a man’s wife
eng	sleeps with another man, as if he is
eng	her husband, only then can her proper
eng	husband divorce her. But if a wife
eng	never does that, her husband can’t
eng	divorce her. If he divorces her, he is
eng	forcing her to go and sleep with
eng	another man, and that is wrong. And if
eng	another man marries her, he is doing
eng	Don’t be like them. God, your Father,
eng	knows what you need already, even
eng	And don’t worry about how long you
eng	will live, or when you will die. No
eng	matter how much you worry about it you
eng	will not live any longer, not even one
eng	So, to find out if a person is good or
eng	bad, look at what they do. A good
eng	person does good things. And a bad
eng	person does bad things.”
eng	There was another man that was already
eng	a follower of Jesus. He said to Jesus,
eng	“Sir, I will come with you. But my
eng	father has died, so let me go home to
eng	bury him. After that, I will come with
eng	30-31 Well, you are more important to
eng	God than a big mob of those birds, so
eng	don’t be frightened. He knows you
eng	properly. He even knows how many hairs
eng	you have on your head. So he will only
eng	let things happen to you that will be
eng	Then Jesus said, “John the Baptiser
eng	is a very important man. He is greater
eng	than any other man that ever lived. But
eng	everyone in God’s family is more
eng	important than John the Baptiser.
eng	He will not fight with anyone or shout
eng	The workers said, ‘Do you want us to
eng	go and pull up those weeds?’
eng	Jesus and his followers went and stayed
eng	in the town called Capernaum. There
eng	were some men that worked in God’s
eng	ceremony house. Every year they
eng	collected the tax money that all the
eng	Jewish people had to pay to look after
eng	God’s ceremony house. Those men went
eng	to Peter and asked him, “Is your
eng	teacher going to pay the tax money for
eng	God’s ceremony house?”
eng	Then the big boss got the worker to
eng	come in, and said to him, ‘You are
eng	really bad. You asked me to forget
eng	about all my money that you borrowed.
eng	It was millions of dollars. And I was
eng	good to you. I said you didn’t have
eng	to give it back to me.
eng	Jesus talked to the Jewish leaders. He
eng	said, “Tell me what you think about
eng	this picture story. A man had 2 sons.
eng	He went to the oldest son and said,
eng	‘Son, go and work on our farm
eng	So those 5 stupid ladies went to buy
eng	some oil. While they were away, that
eng	man came to the house to get married.
eng	The 5 other ladies were ready, and they
eng	went with him into the house, and
eng	somebody locked the door. Then they all
eng	started to eat the wedding dinner.
eng	So we want to stop his followers, so
eng	that they can’t come and steal his
eng	body, and then tell everyone he got up
eng	alive again. If they do that, we’ll
eng	be worse off than before. So we want
eng	somebody to look after the cave that
eng	has his body, and guard it properly for
eng	2-3 A long time before Jesus was born,
eng	God told a man called Isaiah to write
eng	about the things God was going to do
eng	for Jesus some time later. Isaiah wrote,
eng	Like before, Jesus called out to James
eng	and John to stop their work and follow
eng	him. Straight away they left their
eng	father and the other workmen in the
eng	boat, and they followed Jesus.
eng	But the man didn’t do what Jesus
eng	said. He went away and told everyone,
eng	“Jesus made me better.” After
eng	people heard the man’s story they
eng	came from everywhere. Lots of people
eng	came to Jesus. He couldn’t walk by
eng	himself in the towns any more. There
eng	were too many people. So he had to stay
eng	out in the bush. But people still came
eng	from everywhere and found him.
eng	The Jewish law men saw Jesus’s
eng	followers eating those seeds, and those
eng	law men got upset. They growled at
eng	Jesus and said, “Your mob are doing
eng	the wrong thing. Our Jewish law says
eng	that today is the rest day. But your
eng	mob are getting seeds off those plants.
eng	That is work. They are breaking our
eng	“You mob listen to me now. A man
eng	wanted to grow some seed food in a
eng	26-29 Jesus kept on teaching, and said,
eng	“I want you to know the way God’s
eng	family grows. This is another picture
eng	story. A man wanted to grow some seed
eng	food, so he threw some seeds on the
eng	ground. The seeds fell on the ground
eng	and after that the man walked away and
eng	left the seeds there. Those seeds grew
eng	all by themselves and that man didn’t
eng	know what made those seeds grow. He
eng	just left them there for many days and
eng	they grew. God made those seeds grow in
eng	the ground. At first the long stick
eng	part grew, and after that the head part
eng	grew with all the seeds inside it. At
eng	the right time God made the seeds get
eng	hard, ready for people to cut down
eng	those plants and pick up the seed food.
eng	God is boss for everyone and his family
eng	will grow just like the seeds in that
eng	The bad spirits asked Jesus, “Can we
eng	go into that big mob of pigs over
eng	Then Jesus told the people, “Stay
eng	away from this man’s house.” He
eng	only let a few people go with him. They
eng	were the girl’s father and mother,
eng	and Peter, and James and his young
eng	brother John. They were the only ones
eng	John’s friends heard this bad news.
eng	They came and got his body, then they
eng	took it away and buried it.
eng	Night time came, and Jesus was still on
eng	the land all alone, and the boat was
eng	half-way across the lake.
eng	‘If anyone rubbishes their father or
eng	mother, you have to kill that person.’
eng	25-26 There was a Greek woman there.
eng	She came from a place called Phoenicia
eng	in Syria. Her daughter had a bad spirit
eng	inside her. So that woman went to Jesus
eng	to get help. She got down on her knees
eng	in front of Jesus, to show him respect,
eng	and she asked him to force the bad
eng	spirit out of her daughter.
eng	Jesus was a little bit upset. He
eng	breathed deeply and said, “You mob
eng	that are alive today always want to see
eng	something powerful before you will
eng	believe that God sent me. Listen, I’m
eng	telling you straight, I will not do
eng	anything powerful for you mob here
eng	Jesus looked at the other followers
eng	there, then he said strongly to Peter,
eng	“Go away from me. You are like Satan.
eng	You are not thinking God’s way. You
eng	are just thinking like a man.”
eng	Jesus asked the boy’s father, “How
eng	long has your boy been like this?”
eng	Jesus also said to them, “God will
eng	let you have a little bit of trouble.
eng	He wants to test you to see if you are
eng	walking straight for Him.”
eng	– Don’t tell lies about anybody.
eng	So Jesus called them all together and
eng	said, “You know what government
eng	people are like here in this world.
eng	They like to be bosses over everybody.
eng	It is like that everywhere in this
eng	world, the leaders boss everyone around
eng	and the big bosses like to show
eng	everyone that they are strong.
eng	12-13 The next morning Jesus and his
eng	followers started to walk from Bethany
eng	back to Jerusalem. Jesus saw a tree not
eng	far away. It was the kind of tree that
eng	gets fruit called figs. Jesus was
eng	hungry, so he went to look for some
eng	figs on that tree, but there was
eng	nothing. It had lots of leaves but no
eng	fruit. (It wasn’t the right time of
eng	the year yet for fruit.)
eng	The owner sent another man to the
eng	garden, but the men hit him with whips
eng	too, and they hit him on the head.
eng	Jesus said, “You mob have a problem.
eng	You don’t know God’s word properly
eng	and you don’t know about God’s
eng	Then Jesus sat down near the money box
eng	at God’s house. He watched the people
eng	put money in the box to give it to God.
eng	Some rich people put in a lot of money
eng	There will be a lot of people that will
eng	tell lies and say they are the special
eng	man from God called Christ, but they
eng	will be trying to trick you. Other
eng	people will tell lies and say they are
eng	talking God’s words, and they might
eng	do all kinds of clever things. These
eng	people will be thinking, ‘Maybe we
eng	can trick the people that God picked
eng	out for himself.’ But really, they
eng	They heard him say this and they were
eng	very happy. They promised to pay him
eng	money. So Judas kept thinking about
eng	this and waited for the right time to
eng	help them catch Jesus.
eng	Jesus and His followers came to the
eng	place called Gethsemane. He said to
eng	them, “I want you to sit here and
eng	wait for me. I’m going to pray to
eng	They said, “We heard this man say,
eng	‘I will knock down God’s house and
eng	build another one in 3 days. Lots of
eng	men built this one, but I will build
eng	the new one just by myself.’”
eng	9-11 Pilate knew that the leaders of
eng	the Jewish ceremonies were jealous of
eng	Jesus and that was why they brought him
eng	to Pilate. They wanted Pilate to kill
eng	him. So when those Jerusalem people
eng	asked Pilate to let one prisoner go, he
eng	said, “All right. How about I let
eng	Jesus go, this man you say is your big
eng	boss. What do you reckon?”
eng	Some of the people standing around
eng	heard the words that Jesus said. They
eng	thought that he called out for Elijah
eng	to come to him from heaven.
eng	Mary told them, “Jesus is alive
eng	again. I have just seen him.” But
eng	they didn’t believe her.
eng	Zechariah saw the angel there and got a
eng	big shock. He was really frightened.
eng	You see, God can do anything. Nothing
eng	is too hard for him.”
eng	And he gave hungry people good food,
eng	and they ate till they were full.
eng	God promised to save us from our
eng	Joseph took Mary with him. She was his
eng	promised wife, and she was carrying a
eng	baby inside her at that time.
eng	And he will get everyone to respect
eng	your people, the Israel nation.”
eng	“God’s spirit came into me.
eng	(We have not yet translated Luke
eng	7:18-35. You can read those stories and
eng	messages in Matthew 11:1-19.)
eng	But the people in that community said,
eng	“No. He is going to Jerusalem. We
eng	don’t like that Jerusalem mob, so he
eng	is not our friend. He can’t camp here
eng	‘You have to love the other people
eng	around you just as much as you love
eng	Some of you are fathers. If your kid
eng	asks you for a fish to eat, will you
eng	give him a cheeky snake instead? No, of
eng	Then he said to the people, “Think
eng	carefully about this. Don’t be
eng	greedy. Don’t try to get more things
eng	than you need. You can’t get a long
eng	happy life from the things you own,
eng	even if you are rich.”
eng	Then he put his hands on her, and
eng	straight away she stood up straight.
eng	She said, “Oh God, you are really
eng	There’s no way they can pay you for
eng	that feed. But God will make you real
eng	happy. On the day when God will make
eng	everyone alive again, at that time he
eng	will pay you properly for that good
eng	thing you did for those poor people.”
eng	After he gets home he will call out to
eng	all his friends. He will say, ‘Hey,
eng	I’ve found my lost sheep. We can all
eng	be happy together now.’
eng	The worker said, ‘Your brother just
eng	came back home, and your dad is having
eng	a party for him. We just killed a young
eng	bullock and cooked its meat. Your
eng	brother is alive and well, so your dad
eng	And if you don’t handle other
eng	people’s things properly, God will
eng	not give you things for yourself.
eng	But first, before that happens, the
eng	people that are alive today will reckon
eng	they don’t want me to be their boss,
eng	and they will hurt me a lot.
eng	I’m telling now, God listened to that
eng	bad man that was sorry, and God said he
eng	is all right. He went home feeling
eng	good. But God didn’t say that for the
eng	Pharisee, the man that reckoned he was
eng	real good. He didn’t go home feeling
eng	Herod was very happy to see Jesus. You
eng	see, a long time before that day Herod
eng	heard about Jesus, so he always wanted
eng	to meet him. He wanted to see Jesus do
eng	Jesus asked him, “What things?”
eng	Then Jesus asked them, “Have you got
eng	anything here for me to eat?”
eng	Then Jesus’s followers left that
eng	place, the hill called Olive Trees, and
eng	they walked about a kilometre back
eng	9-11 Some of us were born Jews and some
eng	of us became Jews later. We are from a
eng	lot of different countries, and we can
eng	hear them talking the languages of
eng	these countries. Some of us are from
eng	Parthia, and some from Media, and some
eng	from Elam, and some from Mesopotamia,
eng	and some from Judea, and some from
eng	Cappadocia, and some from Pontus, and
eng	some from Asia, and some from Phrygia,
eng	and some from Pamphylia, and some from
eng	Egypt, and some from places in Libya
eng	near Cyrene, and some of us are from
eng	Crete, and some of us are from Arabia,
eng	and some of us are visiting from Rome.
eng	But all of us can hear these people
eng	talking in our own languages. They are
eng	talking about the wonderful things that
eng	You are close by my side and you look
eng	after me, so nobody can frighten me.
eng	The people that believed in Jesus met
eng	together and shared all the things they
eng	had with each other all the time.
eng	If anyone will not listen to him, that
eng	person will not belong to God’s
eng	people, and he will die.’
eng	But Peter and John said to those
eng	leaders, “Do you think that God wants
eng	us to listen to you? Or do you think he
eng	wants us to listen to him, and do the
eng	things he says? What do you reckon? We
eng	know he wants us to do whatever he says,
eng	As soon as Ananias heard Peter say that
eng	he fell down and died. A lot of people
eng	heard about what happened and they were
eng	The soldiers brought the close
eng	followers of Jesus to the Jewish
eng	council men to talk to them. Then the
eng	big boss of the Jewish ceremonies
eng	growled at them and said,
eng	God helped Stephen to be good to
eng	everybody, and he gave Stephen the
eng	power to do great things to show people
eng	That big boss tricked our family and
eng	was very hard on them. He made our mob
eng	throw their baby boys into the river to
eng	So then they made a statue that looked
eng	like a baby cow. They brought money and
eng	things to it, and they had a big party
eng	to show respect to the thing they made.
eng	Those men kept hitting Stephen with big
eng	stones. Then he called out, “Jesus,
eng	my leader, let my spirit come to be
eng	Philip saw him sitting in his wagon and
eng	he was reading God’s book. He was
eng	reading the part that God’s man,
eng	called Isaiah, wrote a long time ago.
eng	But get up and go into the town.
eng	Somebody there will tell you what to
eng	There were some Jewish people in
eng	Jerusalem that talked the Greek
eng	language. Saul told them to believe in
eng	Jesus, but they argued with him. Then
eng	they got upset and tried to kill him.
eng	He started feeling hungry and he wanted
eng	something to eat, but he waited and
eng	prayed while the people in the house
eng	were getting some food ready. Then
eng	Peter had like a dream, but he was
eng	So right away I sent those men to bring
eng	you here. Thank you for coming. God can
eng	see us all here. We are ready to hear
eng	everything that he told you to say to
eng	Then I heard a voice say to me, ‘Get
eng	up Peter. Kill some of those animals
eng	The Jewish leaders told Herod that they
eng	were happy for him to kill James, so
eng	Herod told his soldiers to grab Peter
eng	too. They grabbed him at the time for
eng	the Jewish people to have their
eng	ceremony where they ate flat damper.
eng	There were some good Christians in the
eng	church in the town called Antioch. They
eng	were men that told God’s messages and
eng	taught God’s word to people. They
eng	were Barnabas, and Simeon (his other
eng	name was Niger), and Lucius from the
eng	land called Cyrene, and Manaen (he grew
eng	up with the big boss called Herod), and
eng	Listen, friends. Some of you are Jews
eng	that belong to our grand-father
eng	Abraham’s family, and some of you are
eng	not Jews but you respect our God. All
eng	of you listen to this message that God
eng	sent to us. It is about the way God
eng	So you people be careful. Don’t be
eng	like those people that God’s men
eng	wrote about.” That is the message
eng	that Paul told the people in that
eng	But somebody told Paul and Barnabas
eng	what they wanted to do, and then Paul
eng	and Barnabas tore their clothes to show
eng	them they were upset, and they ran into
eng	the crowd of people. They shouted,
eng	He did the same thing for them that he
eng	did for us. They believed in him and he
eng	made them clean from the wrong things
eng	And the church leaders wrote a letter
eng	for them to take with them. They wrote
eng	Paul kept going, and he came to the
eng	towns called Derbe and Lystra. A
eng	Christian man called Timothy lived
eng	there. Timothy’s mother was a Jew and
eng	she believed in Jesus too, but
eng	Timothy’s father was a Greek.
eng	Later, in the middle of the night, Paul
eng	and Silas were praying aloud to God and
eng	saying that he is really good, and they
eng	were singing songs to God. The other
eng	prisoners were listening to them.
eng	The Jews that lived in Berea were happy
eng	to listen to the message about Jesus
eng	and they thought about it carefully,
eng	not like the Jews in Thessalonica. The
eng	Berea people read God’s book every
eng	day to find out if Paul’s message was
eng	1-2 After that Paul left Athens and he
eng	went to a town called Corinth.
eng	After that Apollos said, “I want to
eng	go to Achaia country.”
eng	That is the way the message about Jesus
eng	got very powerful, and a lot of people
eng	He visited all the Christians in the
eng	towns in Macedonia, and he told them a
eng	lot of things to help them be strong
eng	And you know that I told you all of
eng	God’s message, everything that will
eng	help you. I didn’t keep anything
eng	secret. I taught you God’s message in
eng	places where everyone heard me, and I
eng	taught you in your homes too.
eng	We left Tyre on that ship and went to a
eng	town called Ptolemais. There were
eng	Christians in that town too, so we went
eng	and said hello to them, and we stayed
eng	with them that night.
eng	That’s what we wrote in our letter.”
eng	The light was so bright that I fell
eng	down to the ground. Then I heard the
eng	voice of somebody talking to me from
eng	the sky. He said, ‘Saul. Saul. Why
eng	are you making trouble for me and
eng	Paul said, “Yes, I am.”
eng	Don’t do what they will ask you to
eng	do. There are more than 40 men that
eng	will hide beside that road and wait for
eng	Paul to come along, so they can grab
eng	him and kill him. They even promised
eng	God that they will not eat or drink
eng	anything until they kill Paul. They are
eng	ready right now. They are just waiting
eng	for you to agree to do what they
eng	If you ask him questions you will find
eng	out for yourself that everything we are
eng	telling you is true.”
eng	Then they asked Festus, “Can you tell
eng	your soldiers to bring Paul to
eng	Jerusalem right now, and judge him
eng	here?” You see, they were going to
eng	secretly hide near the road and wait
eng	for Paul to come along, then jump up
eng	So I asked them, ‘What did he do?’
eng	And I found out that he didn’t do
eng	anything bad, so we can’t kill him.
eng	But then he asked me to send him to
eng	Rome, for our biggest boss to judge
eng	him, so now I reckon I will send him to
eng	And Paul said, “I told everyone this
eng	message, but some of the Jewish people
eng	didn’t like it, so they grabbed me
eng	and they tried to kill me. They did
eng	that in God’s ceremony house.
eng	But after a little while, the wind
eng	changed, and a big strong wind blew
eng	across the island from the north side,
eng	and it pushed the ship to the south,
eng	away from the land. (That wind was
eng	called the Northeaster.)
eng	Everyone ate as much as they wanted,
eng	then they threw the rest of the seed
eng	food out of the ship into the sea, and
eng	this made the ship a bit lighter.
eng	After Paul was in Rome for 3 days, he
eng	sent a message to the Jewish leaders to
eng	come and talk with him. So they came,
eng	and Paul said to them, “My brothers,
eng	I didn’t do anything bad to our
eng	people, and I didn’t say anything bad
eng	about our Jewish culture. But our
eng	leaders in Jerusalem grabbed me, and
eng	they started to kill me. Then the boss
eng	of the Roman soldiers came and got me,
eng	and made me his prisoner.
eng	He taught them the way that God takes
eng	people into his family, and he taught
eng	them all about our leader Jesus Christ.
eng	He wasn’t frightened of anyone, and
eng	nobody tried to stop him talking to
eng	They didn’t want the wonderful God
eng	that never dies, but instead they made
eng	models of things that do die. They made
eng	things that look like people, or birds,
eng	or animals, or snakes or those kinds of
eng	things, and they respected those
eng	things. They didn’t respect God.
eng	(The next part, 2:17—3:8, mainly
eng	talks to Jewish people, so we have not
eng	It is like this. We believe in Jesus,
eng	so God tells us, “You are all right
eng	now.” But if we only think about that
eng	law and try to do the things it says,
eng	God will not tell us that we are all
eng	And that’s not all. Jesus Christ bled
eng	and died for us, so now God tells us,
eng	“You are all right,” and there is
eng	no way that he will get angry with us
eng	Actually you used to do bad things all
eng	the time but now you have made God your
eng	boss and you really want to do whatever
eng	he wants. I thank God for this.
eng	I keep trying to do good things, but I
eng	can’t. No, I keep doing the bad
eng	things I don’t want to do.
eng	But don’t worry about the trouble we
eng	get now. Later God will make everything
eng	so good for us that we will not even
eng	think about the trouble we get now.
eng	“The message from God is very close
eng	Or maybe God gave you the power to
eng	cheer people up, well this is your job.
eng	Or maybe he gave you the power to share
eng	your money and things with other
eng	people, well he wants you to share it
eng	with people that need things. Or maybe
eng	God gave you the power to be a leader,
eng	well you have to try to lead people
eng	properly. Or if God gave you the power
eng	to feel sorry for people that have
eng	troubles, and the power to be good to
eng	them, well this is his job for you, so
eng	be happy while you do it.
eng	God’s law says, “Love other people
eng	just as much as you love yourself.”
eng	You know there are lots of other laws
eng	too, like, “Don’t sleep with people
eng	that you are not married to, as if they
eng	are they are your wives or husbands,”
eng	and, “Don’t murder anybody,” and,
eng	“Don’t steal anything,” and,
eng	“Don’t think about getting
eng	something for yourself if it belongs to
eng	somebody else.” But if you really
eng	love other people you will not do any
eng	of these wrong things anyway. So this
eng	law, that says to love people, it says
eng	what all the other laws put together
eng	So don’t eat any meat, and don’t
eng	drink any wine if another Christian
eng	will get upset and go wrong if you do
eng	and he picked me out to be a special
eng	worker for Jesus Christ. My job is to
eng	tell the good news about Jesus to you
eng	mob that are not Jews. Then God’s
eng	spirit works in you to make you good
eng	and right, and God is really happy with
eng	you. It is like I give you to God, like
eng	a really good present.
eng	I’m sending this letter to you
eng	Christians there in the city called
eng	Corinth. God picked you to be his own
eng	special people and he joined you to
eng	Jesus Christ. You are in God’s family
eng	now, along with everyone that says to
eng	Jesus, “You are my leader.” He is
eng	their leader, and he is our leader too.
eng	People might reckon that is a stupid
eng	thing for God to do, but God’s way is
eng	better than the best idea any human has
eng	ever had. And people might reckon that
eng	God is weak. He just let his son die.
eng	But those people are wrong. God did
eng	that to show us that he is stronger
eng	These are the things that we tell you
eng	about. We don’t use words that smart
eng	people taught us, but we use the words
eng	that God’s spirit teaches us. And we
eng	explain God’s message to people that
eng	have God’s spirit living inside them.
eng	“People reckon they are smart,
eng	You see, some of you reckon you are
eng	really great, and you say, “Paul is
eng	frightened to come back here.”
eng	Listen. You know what will happen to
eng	bad people, don’t you? They will not
eng	be in God’s family. They will never
eng	get the good things that God will give
eng	to his people in heaven. Don’t let
eng	anyone trick you about this. I’ll
eng	tell you now about the kind of people
eng	that will not be in God’s family.
eng	People that play around with somebody
eng	they are not married to, and sleep with
eng	them, they will not be in God’s
eng	family. Or 2 men that sleep together
eng	and do what is wrong, they will not be
eng	in God’s family. And people that
eng	respect other spirits more than they
eng	But if she does leave him, she has to
eng	stay single. Or she can go back to her
eng	husband. And a husband has to stay with
eng	But maybe another man and his promised
eng	girl, those 2 decide to work for God
eng	and not to get married, and maybe the
eng	man still wants to stay single and he
eng	can control himself. Well, he can stay
eng	single if he wants to. If he doesn’t
eng	get married, that is good.
eng	You know, everyone that works gets some
eng	sort of pay for their work. You know
eng	about soldiers. They don’t have to
eng	buy their own food or their gear. And
eng	you know about gardeners. They work,
eng	and they always eat some of the food
eng	they grow. And it is the same for
eng	people that look after cows. They work,
eng	and they can drink some of the milk
eng	they get. You see, it’s right for
eng	people to work and then get something
eng	for it. So, if my work is to tell you
eng	about Jesus, it’s right for you to
eng	give me something for my work. But I
eng	never ask you to give me anything.
eng	My friends, do you remember the story
eng	about my mob, the Israel people, a long
eng	time ago? They all followed Moses and
eng	walked out into the hot dry country,
eng	and God covered them all with a big
eng	cloud, and this cloud showed them where
eng	to go. Then they came to the Red Sea
eng	and God pushed the water back so that
eng	they all walked through the Red Sea on
eng	Don’t just think about yourself, and
eng	what is good for you, but think about
eng	what is good for other people.
eng	It’s like this, God made the first
eng	woman by taking a part of the first
eng	man, but after that every man was born
eng	from a woman. But everything really
eng	And don’t come to that meeting
eng	hungry. If you are hungry, eat
eng	something at home before you come to
eng	the meeting, so when you meet together,
eng	you will not do wrong and God will not
eng	But we don’t need to cover the
eng	beautiful parts of our bodies. God has
eng	joined all these parts together to make
eng	one body. We might think some parts are
eng	not important, but God has made them
eng	You know, I talked to you already about
eng	the special power that God gives to his
eng	people, and now I’m telling you that
eng	one day we will stop using that special
eng	power. But we can’t stop loving
eng	people. If you love somebody properly
eng	you will always love them. But the time
eng	will come when God will not need to
eng	give us special power any more. When
eng	that time comes God will not tell some
eng	people his special messages, and God
eng	will not get some people to talk in
eng	special languages, and God will not let
eng	some people know special things.
eng	You see, it is like this. If I pray in
eng	a special language, I’m not using my
eng	mind. I’m not thinking about my words
eng	while I pray. Only my spirit is praying.
eng	Maybe you think I’m wrong, but
eng	remember this, you don’t know
eng	everything in God’s word. It didn’t
eng	start with you, and you are not the
eng	only people that ever heard it.
eng	Listen, this is the true story. Jesus
eng	Christ died, and God made him alive
eng	again. Jesus was the first person to
eng	die and then come back to life again,
eng	and to live for ever.
eng	Every kind of thing that is alive has a
eng	different kind of body from every other
eng	kind of thing. People have one kind of
eng	body. Animals have a different kind of
eng	body. Birds have another kind of body,
eng	and fish have another kind of body.
eng	Do it like this. On the 1st day of
eng	every week, each of you can pick out
eng	some of the money that you got that
eng	week, and keep it in a separate place.
eng	I will come to you soon, and you will
eng	have this money ready for me. You will
eng	not have to quickly look around and try
eng	to find it when I get there.
eng	3-4 You see, Titus was there with me,
eng	and he is a Greek man, not a Jew. But
eng	there were some Jewish men that came
eng	secretly into the church in Jerusalem.
eng	They reckoned they believed in Jesus,
eng	but they didn’t really trust him
eng	properly. They only came into the
eng	church to see what we were doing. And
eng	they reckoned that Titus had to follow
eng	the Jewish law and have a young man’s
eng	operation. But, you see, if we belong
eng	to Jesus Christ we are free from that
eng	law. But those men wanted to force us
eng	So God will be good to everyone that
eng	believes him, just like he was good to
eng	Abraham when Abraham believed God.
eng	And when we became God’s kids he sent
eng	his son’s spirit to live right inside
eng	us. His spirit in us gets us to call
eng	out to God, “My Dad, you are my
eng	“Be happy, you woman that hasn’t
eng	You see, it is like this. We all have a
eng	bad part in us that makes us want to do
eng	bad things, to make us feel good. And
eng	we also have God’s spirit in us, and
eng	he makes us want to do good things.
eng	These 2 are both in you, and they both
eng	want to control you, so they are
eng	fighting each other inside you all the
eng	time. Whenever you listen to God’s
eng	spirit and try to do I good things,
eng	that bad part in you tries to stop you,
eng	so you don’t do what you really want
eng	You see, it doesn’t matter whether
eng	anyone did a young man’s operation on
eng	you, or not. The most important thing
eng	is this. God changed you into a new
eng	God is very powerful.
eng	I know you heard about what God did. He
eng	is very good to you, and he picked me
eng	to tell you his message.
eng	You see, Jesus Christ has been good to
eng	us. He has given us each a spiritual
eng	gift. He gives each one of us the
eng	spiritual power to do something
eng	properly. He himself picks the one to
eng	And don’t swear, or say anything that
eng	is bad. But say good things that will
eng	help people, and make them stronger. In
eng	this way your words will be good for
eng	those that hear you.
eng	Don’t get drunk. If you drink too
eng	much grog you will go wild and stupid.
eng	Don’t do that, but instead, let the
eng	Holy Spirit keep on filling you up.
eng	Now I’m talking to bosses. You have
eng	to do the same, you have to be good to
eng	your workers. Don’t say anything to
eng	frighten them. Don’t tell them you
eng	want to punish them. Remember that God
eng	in heaven is your boss, and he is the
eng	boss of your workers too. And he treats
eng	everyone the same, no matter whether
eng	you are a boss or a worker.
eng	Yes, I love you, just like Jesus Christ
eng	loves you, and I want to be with you
eng	again. God himself knows this is true.
eng	3-4 Each of you has to think about what
eng	is good for the others. Don’t only
eng	think about what is good for yourself.
eng	Don’t think that you are better than
eng	other people, but think that they are
eng	better than you. And don’t do things
eng	only to get people to say you are good.
eng	Don’t try to be a boss over other
eng	people, but let others be boss over you.
eng	Yes, you can be happy too, even if they
eng	kill me. You can be happy with me.
eng	And all of us have to think like this
eng	if we are spiritually strong now and
eng	live properly for Jesus. But if you
eng	think differently about anything, God
eng	will help you and show you which way is
eng	But right now I have everything I need,
eng	and even more than I need. You gave all
eng	these things to Epaphroditus to bring
eng	to me, and I’m happy to get them. But
eng	you didn’t only give them to me. You
eng	gave them to God. You gave him the
eng	right sort of present, a really nice
eng	one, and it has made him very happy.
eng	But God got Jesus Christ to live in a
eng	human body and then die, so that now
eng	you can come back to God and be his
eng	friends. God did this so that later, at
eng	the time when God will judge everyone,
eng	he will see that you are properly good
eng	and clean inside, and he will not blame
eng	you. He will say that you are not
eng	They are trying to have a church
eng	And now I am talking to you fathers.
eng	Don’t be rough on your children.
eng	Don’t make them get angry with you,
eng	or they might stop trying to be good.
eng	And friends, do you know what happened
eng	to the people in the churches in Judea
eng	country? They believed in Jesus and
eng	their Jewish countrymen gave them a lot
eng	of trouble. And it is the same for you
eng	now. You believe in Jesus and your
eng	countrymen give you a lot of trouble.
eng	That Jewish mob didn’t want to
eng	believe God, and they made trouble for
eng	None of you men can ever sleep with a
eng	woman that is not your own wife. If you
eng	do that, you are taking something that
eng	belongs to another man. He is like your
eng	brother, but you are doing a bad thing
eng	to him. And God will punish you if you
eng	do things like that. We told you this
eng	when we were with you, and we mean it.
eng	They work for God, so respect them and
eng	love them very much.
eng	Our Christian friends, we know you are
eng	learning to trust God more and more,
eng	and you are loving each other more and
eng	more. So we have to thank God for you
eng	So then, friends, you have to keep
eng	strong and keep on properly trusting
eng	Jesus. Keep on believing the things
eng	that we taught you. You see, Jesus
eng	taught us those things, and later we
eng	taught them to you. We told you those
eng	things when we were there with you, and
eng	after that we wrote letters to you to
eng	tell you more. Keep on believing those
eng	3-4 Do you remember the time that we
eng	were in Ephesus, and I got up to go to
eng	Macedonia? At that time I wanted you to
eng	straighten out those people in Ephesus
eng	that teach the wrong message, so I told
eng	you to stay there. Those people think a
eng	lot about old time stories that are not
eng	true, and they think about the lists of
eng	names of people in their family. Then
eng	from there they teach people lies.
eng	People that listen to them just get
eng	into useless arguments. People
eng	shouldn’t do that, but they have to
eng	learn about God and the way he works.
eng	They have to learn to believe in God
eng	and to do whatever he wants. So I want
eng	you to tell those lying teachers to
eng	stop teaching those wrong things.
eng	And in your meetings, I want the women
eng	to dress properly and sensibly. They
eng	can’t dress in a way that makes men
eng	look at them. They can’t think about
eng	the fancy clothes they will wear, or
eng	their fancy hairdo, or the jewels that
eng	they want to wear, like gold or pearls.
eng	Those things are not important.
eng	– They can’t be greedy, wanting
eng	lots of money and things.
eng	8-9 You sometimes hear people say,
eng	“If we train our bodies we will get
eng	fit to play sport and we will live
eng	better lives now, and that is a little
eng	bit good for us. But if we train our
eng	spirits to respect God and take notice
eng	of him we will not only live better
eng	lives now but we will live a lot better
eng	in the life that will come after we
eng	die, just like God promised us. That is
eng	a lot better for us.” If people tell
eng	this message they tell a true story,
eng	and everybody has to follow that word.
eng	God says, “You have to pay the worker
eng	for his work.” God gives us an
eng	example of this in his law. We read in
eng	God’s book, “If you get an animal
eng	to work for you, you have to let that
eng	animal eat something when it works.”
eng	Well, it is like that too with the
eng	church leaders. They work for the
eng	church, so the church has to pay them
eng	All right, Timothy, God gave you his
eng	good news, so you have to look after it
eng	properly. Make sure nobody changes it
eng	around. There are some people that have
eng	big discussions but say bad things
eng	about God. Don’t listen to them. They
eng	might reckon they know all about it and
eng	they might say that you are wrong, but
eng	really, they are the ones that are
eng	And you are also like a sportsman. You
eng	know that sportsmen have to follow the
eng	rules of their sport, otherwise they
eng	can’t win. Well, just like that, you
eng	have to follow the rules that God set
eng	down, so that in the end you will win
eng	and he will give you the prize.
eng	Most people will only love themselves,
eng	and money. They will think that they
eng	are smart and they will tell everyone
eng	they are smart. They will say bad
eng	things about other people. They will
eng	never do what their parents tell them
eng	to do. They will never thank anyone for
eng	anything. They will not respect things
eng	that are belong to God.
eng	10-12 Almost all my friends went away
eng	to somewhere else. Demas just likes to
eng	have fun with the things that are
eng	around these days so he left me and
eng	went to Thessalonica. Crescens went to
eng	Galatia country, and Titus went to
eng	Dalmatia country. And I told Tychicus
eng	to go to Ephesus. Only Luke is here
eng	with me now. If Mark was here he could
eng	help me a lot in my work, so get him
eng	and bring him with you.
eng	– don’t pick people that drink a
eng	Then the old women can teach the young
eng	women to love their husbands and their
eng	And Titus, you know the lawyer called
eng	Zenas and his mate called Apollos.
eng	Those 2 men will be leaving your place
eng	soon to go on a trip. Please help them
eng	as much as you can. Make sure they have
eng	everything they need for their trip.
eng	This is me, Paul, writing this with my
eng	own hand so you can be sure I mean it,
eng	I will pay that money back to you. But
eng	remember you already got a lot from me.
eng	I told you about Jesus and he gave you
eng	My dear friends, you have to be ready
eng	to listen to other people, and you have
eng	to stop and think before you say
eng	anything yourself. Stop and think
eng	before you get angry, too.
eng	Maybe you reckon, “Some people can
eng	believe in Jesus and other people can
eng	do the good things that Jesus says to
eng	do.” I answer like this, “You
eng	can’t show me that you believe in
eng	Jesus if you don’t do the things he
eng	says. But whenever I do the good things
eng	he tells me to do I show you that I do
eng	– We are fair to everybody. We
eng	don’t treat some people good and
eng	other people like rubbish.
eng	5-6 While you lived here on this earth
eng	you killed good people that couldn’t
eng	fight back. You lied and said they were
eng	guilty and then you killed them. While
eng	you were doing that you got everything
eng	you wanted and had plenty to eat. You
eng	are fat now, but look out. God will
eng	kill you. Think about a farmer and his
eng	cow. He feeds that cow a lot of grass
eng	and makes it fat, then he kills it to
eng	get some meat. Well that is a picture
eng	of you. You are fat now, but God will
eng	You are trusting God and he is saving
eng	you, so you are really happy. You are
eng	so happy you can’t properly say how
eng	You see, you already found out that
eng	Jesus Christ is really good.
eng	Some of you are working men. You belong
eng	to your bosses. Maybe your boss is good
eng	to you, or maybe your boss is rough on
eng	you. It doesn’t matter. You have to
eng	listen carefully to your boss anyway
eng	and do whatever he tells you. Sometimes
eng	you do nothing wrong, but your boss
eng	makes trouble for you or hits you
eng	because you are following Jesus. You
eng	have to respect him anyway and take it
eng	quietly. Don’t try to pay him back.
eng	God has given each one of you a
eng	different way to do good for each
eng	other. He has given you the power to do
eng	it, so you have to do it properly.
eng	God loves you and he is looking after
eng	you, so tell him about everything that
eng	makes you sad, or angry, or worried,
eng	and trust him to look after you
eng	But while I’m still alive in this
eng	body I will do everything I can to keep
eng	telling you these things so that after
eng	I die you will always remember them.
eng	Suppose these people never knew the
eng	right way. If that is true, God will
eng	not punish them very much. But that is
eng	not true. They did know the right way
eng	and then they turned back and went the
eng	wrong way, so God will really punish
eng	God is very good to you, and I pray
eng	that he will keep being good to you
eng	more and more. I pray that he will keep
eng	feeling sorry for you, and help you be
eng	really happy and quiet inside
eng	yourselves. And I pray that he will
eng	keep loving you very much.
eng	He is the only God. He gets our leader,
eng	Jesus Christ, to save us. So everyone
eng	has to always thank him and remember
eng	how great he is. He has all power.
eng	Everything has to do whatever he says.
eng	He always had this power. He had it
eng	right from the start of time. And he
eng	will have all this power for ever. This
eng	'A bit of a shame' because, even though
eng	the public finance situation in the
eng	Member States is complicated, we should
eng	have done everything in our power to
eng	reinvest the revenue collected for the
eng	benefit of, for example, trans-European
eng	transport network (TEN-T) priority
eng	- The next item is the joint debate on
eng	the following reports:
eng	A joint statement by the European
eng	Parliament and the Council. 'The
eng	European Parliament and the Council are
eng	mindful of the importance of providing
eng	accurate information to consumers, in
eng	particular, when products are marketed
eng	with an indication of origin so as to
eng	protect them against fraudulent,
eng	inaccurate or misleading claims.
eng	Above all, EU policy should be measured
eng	by the progress made in improving the
eng	well-being of Europeans.
eng	According to future estimates relating
eng	to employability and required diplomas,
eng	there are allegedly 15.6 million new
eng	jobs within the EU for graduates and
eng	3.7 million for those with a secondary
eng	education qualification (source:
eng	Cedefop). On the other hand, 12 million
eng	jobs are going to be cut for those with
eng	a lower level of qualification!
eng	According to the target set in 2002, EU
eng	Member States must offer early years
eng	education to 90% of children between
eng	the age of three and the compulsory
eng	Admittedly, this text is far less
eng	ambitious than the initial proposal,
eng	but it will enable us for the first
eng	time to implement the 'polluter pays'
eng	principle and to internalise external
eng	transport costs such as noise and CO2
eng	After five years, we will know whether
eng	it is working and then this credit
eng	rating foundation will also have to pay
eng	back the funds that it has received.
eng	Agenda of the next sitting : see Minutes
eng	All of this goes towards underlining
eng	the need to protect European businesses
eng	and the fact that there can be no
eng	growth and development, and above all
eng	no jobs, in a social and market economy
eng	situation in which the market - which
eng	is also a fundamental instrument of our
eng	European Union - does not pursue a
eng	higher and more important goal, namely
eng	All this must be viewed from the
eng	sustainability standpoint you have been
eng	talking about, as well as from the
eng	environmental and social standpoints,
eng	but must also be viewed from the other
eng	side, which is also important: that is,
eng	the human side, for fishers who are
eng	suffering enormously.
eng	Also of interest is the idea of
eng	bringing the timing of the MMF into
eng	line with the political cycles of EU
eng	bodies, thereby increasing democratic
eng	control and accountability.
eng	Although it is expected that South
eng	Sudan will apply for accession to the
eng	Cotonou Agreement, the 10th European
eng	Development Fund will not be available
eng	until sometime after accession to the
eng	Although the directive should not allow
eng	discrimination based on the haulier's
eng	nationality, Article 7k permits Member
eng	States which introduce a system for
eng	charging tolls and/or users of the
eng	infrastructure to offer suitable
eng	compensation for these charges, which
eng	may distort competition.
eng	Amendment of Rule 51: joint committee
eng	An announcement today in that direction
eng	would certainly be helpful for Egypt
eng	and for the Egyptians.
eng	And lastly, I find it important to
eng	mention the importance of a deep
eng	understanding of cultural heritage, so
eng	that communities living together can
eng	recognise and respect each other's
eng	cultural values. I believe that the
eng	concrete task of the Commission is to
eng	promote all of these issues, while that
eng	of Parliament is to strengthen
eng	theoretical and political support.
eng	Another important element is the
eng	strengthening of development based on
eng	small and medium-sized enterprises.
eng	Any hidden agenda has the potential to
eng	distort, if not destroy, these
eng	Approximation of the laws of the Member
eng	States relating to units of measurement
eng	As I have already explained, all the
eng	matters discussed at that time are
eng	linked to national competence.
eng	As a Bulgarian politician, I am
eng	following with particular interest the
eng	developments concerning the
eng	intermediate category of beneficiary
eng	regions, which is planned to be created
eng	in the new 2013-2020 budget framework.
eng	As a result of the provision on
eng	revision the co-legislators can make
eng	informed decisions because the
eng	Commission will conduct an in-depth
eng	survey on further compulsory labelling
eng	As an example, as Mr Audy reminded us,
eng	we have already implemented three
eng	concrete simplification measures for
eng	FP7: more use of average personnel
eng	costs, easier procedures for
eng	owner-managers of SMEs, and a clearing
eng	committee to ensure a common
eng	interpretation of the rules.
eng	As far as the radio spectrum is
eng	concerned, our policy must have
eng	realistic yet ambitious objectives so
eng	that European companies are able to
eng	compete in the world market on a
eng	As if that were not enough, the
eng	rivalries between the tribes and armed
eng	groups in South Sudan are also on the
eng	rise, and observers estimate that more
eng	than a thousand people have already
eng	lost their lives since January.
eng	As part of the mechanism for
eng	cooperation in the area of nuclear
eng	safety, we are considering a project
eng	aimed at helping the most significantly
eng	affected population groups around the
eng	Chernobyl exclusion zone.
eng	As regards the 2012 budget, I would
eng	like to point out that the draft budget
eng	that was adopted by the Commission on
eng	20 April is in line with the European
eng	Council conclusions of 24 and 25 March,
eng	which state that fiscal consolidation
eng	efforts must be complemented by
eng	growth-enhancing structural reforms.
eng	As someone who, for many years, worked
eng	as a journalist and has a thorough
eng	knowledge of the job, this matter is of
eng	particular importance to me. In
eng	Azerbaijan, journalists are constantly
eng	hindered from fulfilling their basic
eng	role - the reliable and credible
eng	provision of information.
eng	As such, the MFF needs to have the
eng	financial backing to match the ambition
eng	and commitment of the Europe 2020
eng	As the primary role of the IMF is to
eng	work on conditional structural reform
eng	packages to accompany the distribution
eng	of funds to members when they are in
eng	dire straits, I believe that Ms Lagarde
eng	has shown that she is well able to
eng	broker complex agreements on
eng	controversial issues, successfully
eng	bringing together disparate parties to
eng	reach a beneficial solution.
eng	As we approach a new stage of EU
eng	enlargement, the MFF must provide for
eng	properly balanced expenditure.
eng	As with Mr Lyon's report one year ago
eng	and Mr Garriga Polledo's report on the
eng	financial perspectives last month,
eng	tomorrow we will be voting in favour of
eng	maintaining the agricultural budget for
eng	the 2014-2020 programming period. I am
eng	sure that it will be a close-run thing,
eng	but we do need to take a stand and to
eng	make choices, because we will not have
eng	the money to do everything ...
eng	Aside from what has already been said
eng	about the precautionary principle and
eng	essential traceability - the first
eng	point - it is also a question of
eng	knowing how this general alert singling
eng	out Spanish cucumbers for blame could
eng	have been issued without any, or hardly
eng	At a time when the EU has already
eng	understood that greater coordination of
eng	economic policy and greater control of
eng	budgetary policy are both necessary,
eng	the idea that the Multiannual Financial
eng	Framework (MFF) should support economic
eng	governance seems an extremely relevant
eng	At present, two thirds of energy
eng	resources are imported from countries
eng	outside the EU, mainly Russia.
eng	At the present time, attention is
eng	mainly paid to implementation of the EU
eng	Action Plan for 2009-2012, which is
eng	aimed at strengthening European
eng	cooperation in the struggle against the
eng	unacceptable consequences of drug
eng	addiction. I would like to see the
eng	Centre working not only on the
eng	consequences but also on the causes of
eng	drug addiction, thus solving the
eng	problem at an early stage. I voted in
eng	At the same time, however, we also have
eng	to say that it is our job, in the
eng	European Union, to warn consumers when
eng	there is a dangerous foodstuff on the
eng	At the same time, this method also
eng	enables the Member States to generate
eng	resources to reinvest in the transport
eng	system in order to make it more
eng	sustainable so as to actually reduce
eng	these external costs.
eng	At times of crisis, investment is
eng	needed in jobs and development.
eng	Baroness Ashton, you have an important
eng	role; please fulfil it to the utmost,
eng	in the knowledge that the time
eng	available is quickly running out.
eng	Because of Lisbon, investment treaties
eng	can become an instrument for the
eng	Commission's political objectives - and
eng	not just the Commission's: we can be
eng	absolutely sure that the Greens will
eng	try to advance their political
eng	programme, and we have seen that in the
eng	trade treaties time after time.
eng	Better use can be made of the forest in
eng	this fight, not only through preventing
eng	felling, but also through afforestation
eng	and reforestation programmes.
eng	Both sides are also significant
eng	investors in each other's economy, with
eng	a combined volume of Foreign Direct
eng	Investment worth EUR 200 billion in
eng	Businesses in Europe must remain
eng	But the Commissioner has put his finger
eng	on it in relation to a number of
eng	issues: first of all, the fact that
eng	there are some diverse standards;
eng	secondly, the long time that it takes
eng	from the time of application to actual
eng	By 'European family', I mean the
eng	overseas countries and territories
eng	(OCT), which, although not strictly
eng	European territories, maintain a
eng	special relationship with the European
eng	Union, and, in particular, with the
eng	Member States of which they are part.
eng	By giving children the ability to
eng	realise their potential, quality
eng	education and care structures can
eng	contribute significantly to achieving
eng	two of the major objectives of the
eng	Europe 2020 strategy: reducing early
eng	school drop-out rates below 10% and
eng	lifting at least 20 million people out
eng	of poverty and social exclusion.
eng	By the way, temporary border controls
eng	were introduced on the basis of the
eng	Schengen regime of 2006 for the
eng	European Football Championship and for
eng	the football World Cup as a defence
eng	against hooliganism.
eng	Canada is one of the EU's oldest and
eng	closest partners, being the first
eng	industrialised country with which - in
eng	1976 - the EU signed a Framework
eng	Agreement for commercial and economic
eng	Choosing the right way forward in the
eng	area of contract law could make a
eng	significant contribution to improving
eng	the functioning of the Internal Market,
eng	and to opening up its full potential
eng	for businesses, in particular, small
eng	and medium-sized enterprises, and
eng	Cohesion policy after 2013 should
eng	continue to be an important factor in
eng	the development of Europe.
eng	Commissioner Malmström, leave Schengen
eng	as it is. Re-read the Treaties, re-read
eng	Articles 67 and 78. Everything is there.
eng	Commissioner, we are all looking
eng	forward to your communication in
eng	October and then to good, positive
eng	Consensus was also reached on the issue
eng	of transparency, since I support the
eng	idea to oblige all registered rating
eng	agencies to conduct an annual review to
eng	assess their past credit rating
eng	performances, with this information
eng	then being passed on to the supervisor.
eng	Considering the significant economic
eng	returns from such programmes, I voted
eng	in favour of the Remek report which
eng	calls on the Commission and the Member
eng	States to ensure sufficient funding in
eng	order to make sure these projects are
eng	completed by 2018, thus asserting
eng	themselves as credible challengers to
eng	the American system.
eng	Cooperation in vocational education and
eng	training to support the Europe 2020
eng	strategy (short presentation)
eng	Countries that fail to meet the
eng	obligations in the preventive and
eng	corrective part of the Stability and
eng	Growth Pact may be subject, unless they
eng	take appropriate measures (the
eng	suitability of which will be decided by
eng	the Council) and present a rebalancing
eng	plan, to the application of financial
eng	sanctions equal to 0.1% of GDP.
eng	Crucial elements in that policy would
eng	be support for the work of the UN and a
eng	clarification of the EU's policy with
eng	Cutting expenses hurts, but remains the
eng	only way back to growth and stability.
eng	Despite already being the object of
eng	resolutions of this Parliament, the
eng	last of which was in 2010, the old
eng	request that the country of origin be
eng	marked and that information be made
eng	available about the origin of various
eng	goods has been postponed, which we
eng	Despite the ongoing fighting and its
eng	spread to various parts of Libya,
eng	humanitarian organisations are doing a
eng	remarkable job in preventing a major
eng	humanitarian disaster.
eng	Disselkoen has once again paid a large
eng	amount of money as bail and is back in
eng	the Netherlands, but his case shows
eng	that the European Arrest Warrant may
eng	lead to degrading situations.
eng	Does this make us a key international
eng	player with influence to match our
eng	economic strength? The answer is a
eng	resounding 'No'. Europe is still
eng	effectively a bit player, at best a Tom
eng	Thumb in politics and geostrategy,
eng	despite the ever-increasing
eng	expectations of European public opinion.
eng	During the debate, one of our fellow
eng	Members said that letting Romania and
eng	Bulgaria join Schengen would be a
eng	childish decision. I totally disagree.
eng	I believe that when we become adults,
eng	we appreciate rational arguments, and
eng	if we have been well educated, we
eng	recognise when rational arguments are
eng	Earlier, we discussed Mr Coelho's
eng	report and the need to safeguard
eng	Schengen as one of the most beautiful
eng	achievements of the European Union.
eng	Either these countries will look only
eng	to China or to Russia, or they will at
eng	least have a chance to look towards
eng	Europe. I believe that this is
eng	Environmental protection is one of the
eng	European Union's priorities.
eng	Europe must be involved here at an
eng	earlier stage. I do not believe that we
eng	have learnt the right lessons from the
eng	crises of the 1990s.
eng	European Investment Bank, European
eng	Commission, we are actually asking for
eng	an investigation into the activities of
eng	the European Investment Bank towards
eng	the end of September this year so that
eng	we can start the next discharge
eng	procedure with proper documentation.
eng	European regulation of the issue which
eng	you are rightly complaining about on
eng	the basis of practical experience was
eng	not wanted at the time.
eng	Even now, the majority of Indian
eng	foreign investment is situated in the
eng	European Union and the Tata Group alone
eng	is a leading employer in the industrial
eng	sector in Great Britain.
eng	Every country should have the right to
eng	focus on the concerns of its citizens,
eng	including food security, the
eng	environment, reservations about genetic
eng	modification and the needs of rural
eng	areas, in order to support sustainable
eng	agriculture in Europe.
eng	Experience shows that in many cases,
eng	project ideas emerge on the basis of
eng	available funding, instead of being
eng	based on real needs and on strategic
eng	Finally it is also aimed at
eng	incorporating within international
eng	negotiations the rights of workers,
eng	which the International Labour
eng	Organisation is tasked with defending,
eng	as well as promoting a global economic
eng	governance that takes these parameters
eng	Finally, I think the central role of
eng	the urban issue in cohesion policy is
eng	Finally, Madam President, I would point
eng	out that if we in Parliament want to
eng	escape the influence of lobbyists to a
eng	greater extent in future, then we will
eng	need greater supports and more staff,
eng	enabling us to achieve more for the
eng	citizens of the European Union.
eng	Finally, my other question relates to
eng	the timing, and you spoke about the
eng	difficulty with the Commission and the
eng	budgetary authority.
eng	Finally, we do not believe it is wrong
eng	for Parliament to award cultural prizes.
eng	First of all, I would like express my
eng	sincerest gratitude to Baroness Ashton
eng	for the EU's full support to Estonia in
eng	trying to resolve the hostage crisis in
eng	Firstly that Objective 1 funds, for the
eng	convergence regions, not be reduced - I
eng	would even like to see them increased -
eng	by the savings made as a result of
eng	certain regions no longer being under
eng	Objective 1. These savings must benefit
eng	the new intermediary regions of course,
eng	but also the other regions.
eng	Firstly, the Commission, Member States
eng	and their organisations must provide
eng	consumers with information upstream.
eng	Fishermen's incomes are also dependent
eng	on the price of oil.
eng	Following the positive results of the
eng	evaluations and follow-up visits by
eng	teams of experts, it can be concluded
eng	that although some issues remain
eng	outstanding and regular reports and
eng	future follow-up visits are being
eng	demanded, these do not constitute an
eng	obstacle to the full accession of
eng	Bulgaria and Romania to the Schengen
eng	For example, EUR 34 billion left the
eng	six Irish domestic banks in the last
eng	three months of 2010, forcing them to
eng	rely on what is supposedly short-term
eng	funding from the ECB to the tune of EUR
eng	For example, we need a clear definition
eng	of whistleblowing, we need
eng	whistleblowers to have a right to be
eng	heard, we need independent points of
eng	contact that can provide information on
eng	rights, obligations and options, and
eng	not least we also need precise handling
eng	deadlines for the competent EU
eng	For millions of Europeans, programmes
eng	such as Erasmus, Lifelong Learning,
eng	Comenius, Leonardo, Youth in Action,
eng	and many others besides, are not just
eng	labels but a symbol of the European
eng	For that reason, we have also supported
eng	the rapporteur, Mr Coelho, from the
eng	start in his view that the same
eng	standards must apply to all Member
eng	States, including when it comes to
eng	For their part, entrepreneurs will have
eng	the opportunity to offer new quality
eng	services, which will stimulate the
eng	development of the common European
eng	For this reason, Member States should
eng	ensure that vocational education and
eng	training is better adjusted to the
eng	needs of the labour market, and that
eng	vocational education provides employees
eng	with the skills needed to take up new,
eng	sustainable jobs that will be created
eng	in the future sustainable economy. I
eng	consider the role of local governments,
eng	entrepreneurial partnerships and
eng	educational institutions important in
eng	the development of the labour market
eng	demands of vocational education and
eng	For us, if the European Union is to
eng	progress, it needs to develop a policy
eng	based on principles of peace, detached
eng	from military means and interventions,
eng	and to promote the demilitarisation of
eng	international relations.
eng	Fourthly, in addition to all the
eng	cultural, social, religious and foreign
eng	policy concerns, the accession of
eng	Turkey would place a massive burden on
eng	From the Lithuanian border, it will be
eng	possible to see the chimneys of one of
eng	these power plants just as clearly as
eng	we can we the tower of Strasbourg
eng	Cathedral from Parliament.
eng	Further there will be a prohibition of
eng	so called pre-ticked boxes causing
eng	problems especially in the passenger
eng	Furthermore, entrepreneurs, managers of
eng	small and medium-sized enterprises in
eng	the creative sector, need better access
eng	to financing opportunities, because we
eng	currently have too little know-how and
eng	too little access to bank finance.
eng	Furthermore, owing to the European
eng	Union's high degree of dependency on
eng	imports from third countries (60%),
eng	producers have very little or even no
eng	influence on the price levels of
eng	fisheries products. I agree that the
eng	ceiling on de minimis aid should be
eng	raised from EUR 30 000 to EUR 60 000
eng	per firm for a transitional period of
eng	three years, while ensuring that
eng	environmental and social sustainability
eng	are not undermined and that competition
eng	between Member States is not distorted.
eng	Furthermore, the way in which this
eng	approach penalises the geographically
eng	more peripheral Member States,
eng	countries of origin, departure or
eng	destination of goods, for the benefit
eng	of 'central' and transit countries, is
eng	Georgia has practically eliminated the
eng	cancer of corruption in state
eng	institutions and the civil service by
eng	means of a series of public sector
eng	reforms (concerning the public
eng	prosecutor's office, the judiciary and
eng	the police) and political reforms.
eng	Given that the main economic activities
eng	in Seychelles are fishing and tourism,
eng	and that this agreement benefits both
eng	the EU and the Republic of Seychelles,
eng	in view of the creation of 3 000 jobs
eng	in Seychelles and 760 in Europe and the
eng	monitoring of catches through a
eng	multiannual sectoral programme which
eng	provides for scientific cooperation and
eng	the promotion of responsible and
eng	sustainable fisheries, I am voting in
eng	favour of this proposal for a
eng	Given the results of the referendum,
eng	the will of the people of South Sudan
eng	is now unequivocally in favour of
eng	independence, as has been repeatedly
eng	reiterated for many years now.
eng	Greater consistency is needed in EU
eng	development aid and cooperation policy,
eng	particularly with regard to the
eng	African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP)
eng	Has a reform in your criminal justice
eng	system been considered so that
eng	prosecutors have some discretion as to
eng	whether to issue an arrest warrant and
eng	do not have to pursue every single
eng	complaint? In that way, the famous
eng	small offences like the stolen piglet
eng	would not be so much of a problem.
eng	He has all the requisites for being an
eng	excellent President of the European
eng	Here is a country that has not really
eng	moved forward in terms of political
eng	rights since the break-up of the Soviet
eng	Honourable Members, I hope that the
eng	avenues and initiatives I have
eng	indicated will be followed up with
eng	effective action within the Member
eng	How should we classify the middle-class
eng	protests in the Arab countries? The
eng	underlying causes are both political
eng	However, I am not here to discuss what
eng	should be agreed among competent
eng	Members of the Commission and the
eng	International Monetary Fund with the
eng	participation of the Greek authorities.
eng	However, I regret the shortcomings in
eng	the management of the fixed assets'
eng	inventory identified by the Court of
eng	Auditors but note the Agency's
eng	assurance that this will be remedied in
eng	the 2010 accounts; considers that
eng	uncertainty about the location of fixed
eng	assets is another illustration of the
eng	problems and additional costs arising
eng	from using two sites.
eng	However, I would like us to establish
eng	more precisely what overall cost
eng	savings the Union will achieve as a
eng	result of environmental improvements
eng	and to present these figures.
eng	However, as regards trade relations
eng	between the European Union and third
eng	countries, there remain profound
eng	differences in terms of social
eng	protection systems, as well as of
eng	However, for formal reasons, we must
eng	ensure that those businesses which are
eng	affected are involved in an appropriate
eng	way and, therefore, we need the time to
eng	However, in order to ensure regional
eng	cooperation does not serve merely as an
eng	excuse to delay decisions, we have
eng	added a whole raft of requirements
eng	which such cooperation should meet.
eng	However, it is essential to put theory
eng	into practice, especially when it comes
eng	to mobilising enough financial
eng	resources through Union support
eng	programmes and measures to enable the
eng	monitoring of forests' ecological and
eng	phytosanitary state and, wherever
eng	necessary, their reclassification,
eng	including reforestation.
eng	However, more needs to be done to make
eng	improvements in this area and it is for
eng	this reason that I supported this
eng	However, that must be the subject of
eng	proper legal proceedings.
eng	However, the debate has only just
eng	become public, with the result that
eng	some Members do not yet feel they have
eng	been adequately informed. I will be
eng	happy to provide assistance with such
eng	discussions or requests for
eng	information. I consider the project to
eng	be necessary and useful, because people
eng	need to find out more about European
eng	development - otherwise there will be
eng	more and more Eurosceptics.
eng	However, the report fundamentally
eng	emphasises the role of vocational
eng	training in promoting entrepreneurship
eng	and the need to 'create an environment
eng	where enterprises can succeed, develop
eng	and grow', adding that 'to grow, they
eng	need a reduced tax burden and
eng	predictability so they can plan and
eng	make investments'. It also believes
eng	that vocational training and lifelong
eng	learning must be geared more closely
eng	'to the needs of the labour market and
eng	allow for entry into and mobility
eng	within it'. In other words, what the
eng	report does is put education and
eng	training fully at the beck and call of
eng	European capitalism.
eng	However, there is a nice link that
eng	connects the two issues, because in
eng	relation to the migration issue, in
eng	particular Schengen, we also see the
eng	same principle at work, namely that one
eng	of Europe's major successes is now
eng	being called into question as a result
eng	of national egotism. I am sure that we
eng	have all seen the figures indicating
eng	that 18 000 refugees have arrived in
eng	However, this report has enabled us to
eng	verify that measures that can be taken
eng	within the framework of international
eng	trade probably cannot be dealt with as
eng	urgently as these acts require, so we
eng	should learn for the future.
eng	However, we cannot fail to point out
eng	some doubts that remain - arising from
eng	other fisheries partnership agreements
eng	- about the effectiveness of the stated
eng	objectives of cooperation on
eng	sustainable development in the sector
eng	for the third country in question, and
eng	on the sustainability and monitoring of
eng	their fishing activities.
eng	However, we still have a lot to do to
eng	make life easier for SMEs with respect
eng	to the red tape they are faced with and
eng	access to funding that is often
eng	Hungarians also have the right to adopt
eng	a constitution which makes no mention
eng	of an ombudsman or a personal data
eng	I also appeal from this Chamber to the
eng	football authorities in Romania to
eng	reverse this decision and allow
eng	Politehnica Timişoara to remain in
eng	top-flight Romanian and European
eng	I am calling for a little more
eng	flexibility for the Member States. I am
eng	also calling for the Commission to
eng	analyse my request thoroughly and to
eng	understand the concerns of an entire
eng	sector, which must be preserved and
eng	I am in favour of Romania and Bulgaria
eng	joining the Schengen area. A detailed
eng	and objective assessment of both
eng	countries' compliance with the Schengen
eng	acquis has been completed.
eng	I am sorry if there is a false
eng	impression about the Commission's views
eng	on Schengen. I do not think I have
eng	spoken about anything other than
eng	Schengen for the last month! I have
eng	emphasised how important Schengen is,
eng	what a gift it is to the European Union
eng	and that we must strengthen it and not
eng	I am voting for this proposal, given
eng	that the report has achieved a balanced
eng	approach between the most important
eng	issues for the organisation and the
eng	activities of the European External
eng	Action Service, and for the key areas
eng	of security and defence policy.
eng	I am voting in favour of this
eng	resolution, which relates to a chapter
eng	of the European commercial policy that
eng	should be taken as a model for
eng	negotiations with other countries -
eng	including India, China and Pakistan -
eng	which certainly do not guarantee fair
eng	competition, let alone respect for
eng	social rights and environmental
eng	standards, as Canada does.
eng	I believe that the example shown by the
eng	aerospace industry in Northern Ireland
eng	is a significant one - larger companies
eng	mentoring and helping smaller companies
eng	to actually access the programme - and
eng	I would use this opportunity to call
eng	upon the Commissioner to provide us
eng	with radical and new ways for small and
eng	medium-sized enterprises to benefit
eng	from this very important programme.
eng	I can only be in favour of the choice
eng	to put Mario Draghi forward as the new
eng	President of the European Central Bank
eng	(ECB) for an eight-year term beginning
eng	I do not agree with the proposal to
eng	charge heavy goods vehicles according
eng	to air and noise pollution. I feel that
eng	it would be inappropriate to create yet
eng	another additional tax burden for
eng	hauliers, who have been badly affected
eng	by the financial crisis.
eng	I fail to see how, with a reduced
eng	budget, we will be able to rise to all
eng	the challenges described in that
eng	document; how common agricultural
eng	policy subsidies will be made greener,
eng	a process we want to ensure will not
eng	require an additional effort on the
eng	part of agricultural and livestock
eng	farmers; how we will be able to achieve
eng	I have finished my four minutes and I
eng	want to keep some time for the end of
eng	this debate, so I would just like to
eng	end by saying that in this time of
eng	austerity and times of economic
eng	difficulties, we must make sure that
eng	early years is still on the agenda and
eng	we still do what needs to be done in
eng	this important area.
eng	I have voted in favour of the agreement
eng	as it is intended to ensure that trade
eng	takes place with a high level of
eng	customs security and that a set of
eng	standards ever closer to the EU acquis
eng	I move on now to explain my vote on the
eng	Directive on Consumer Rights. I welcome
eng	the adoption of this directive, which
eng	constitutes a step forward in European
eng	integration and in the protection of
eng	consumer rights but, at the same time,
eng	I regret that the adoption of a number
eng	of articles of the directive involves
eng	taking protection away from many
eng	Spanish consumers and users who are
eng	going to find themselves deprived of
eng	certain rights that were already
eng	enshrined in Spanish law.
eng	I served four terms as a member of
eng	parliament for a region, one area of
eng	which, namely Naoussa, has one of the
eng	highest unemployment rates in the whole
eng	of Europe, as a result of the impact of
eng	globalisation of the textile industry.
eng	I still believe that some sort of
eng	European Arrest Warrant is a necessary
eng	tool to fight crime and terrorism
eng	across the Union, particularly given
eng	the huge free movement of people now
eng	moving between Member States, including
eng	- sadly - criminals. I also believe
eng	that the number of errors or
eng	miscarriages is relatively small - but
eng	I support this report, which calls on
eng	the Member States to ensure that
eng	people, at different times of life,
eng	have access to vocational education and
eng	training which is tailored to their
eng	needs that will facilitate and improve
eng	their participation in the labour
eng	market and in society more generally.
eng	I therefore ask the Commission how it
eng	intends to proceed and whether it
eng	intends to submit a proposal to remove
eng	the Member States' discretion in the
eng	transposition of Articles 3 and 4 of
eng	the framework decision, concerning the
eng	grounds for mandatory non-execution and
eng	optional non-execution.
eng	I think that accession to the Schengen
eng	area is not a gift being offered to
eng	Romania, but rather recognition of its
eng	merits and efforts, and will be an
eng	obvious asset to the security of the
eng	EU's external borders.
eng	I view the assessment made by the Court
eng	of Auditors in these special reports
eng	positively, because it is through these
eng	reports that we are able to access more
eng	clearly the information relating to how
eng	funds are spent, and also the need to
eng	reassess or adapt programmes and
eng	I voted against this report, which
eng	draws cultural goods into a logic of
eng	the market and competition.
eng	I voted for the report on the common
eng	agricultural policy towards 2020:
eng	meeting the food, natural resources and
eng	territorial challenges of the future,
eng	because it tables proposals that
eng	respond to new challenges like food
eng	security, environmental protection and
eng	climate change, whilst simultaneously
eng	ensuring greater territorial balance in
eng	Europe's rural areas.
eng	I voted for this report because the
eng	committee responsible considers that,
eng	in giving the interview in question,
eng	Luigi de Magistris was acting in the
eng	performance of his duties as Member of
eng	the European Parliament and carrying
eng	out political activities by expressing
eng	his opinion on a matter of public
eng	interest to his constituents.
eng	I voted for this resolution which urges
eng	the Commission to speed up its
eng	activities with regard to revising and
eng	improving the directive and other
eng	relevant legislation so as to put an
eng	end to the misleading practices of
eng	business directory companies as soon as
eng	possible, notably by specifically
eng	blacklisting misleading practices by
eng	business directories
eng	I voted in favour of granting 2009
eng	discharge to the SESAR Joint
eng	Undertaking because that recently
eng	formed undertaking has convinced the
eng	Court of Auditors of its reliability.
eng	I voted in favour of the draft Council
eng	Regulation concerning the extension of
eng	the scope of the regulation of the
eng	European Parliament and of the Council
eng	on the professional cross-border
eng	transport of euro cash between euro
eng	area Member States. I voted in favour
eng	of it because I consider that extending
eng	the scope of the regulation is
eng	necessary and will resolve problems
eng	relating to the safety of the personnel
eng	responsible for transportation.
eng	I voted in favour of the report on the
eng	creation of a European law of contract
eng	for consumers and businesses which will
eng	help to facilitate cross-border
eng	transactions and strengthen the
eng	Internal Market, especially for small
eng	and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) and
eng	I voted in favour of this document,
eng	codifying Council Directive 86/415/EEC
eng	of 24 July 1986 on the installation,
eng	location, operation and identification
eng	of the controls of wheeled agricultural
eng	or forestry tractors.
eng	I voted in favour of this report
eng	because I agree that it is very
eng	important to continuously improve the
eng	quality of EU law making, and this
eng	report sets out concrete proposals for
eng	improving the law making process both
eng	within the European Parliament and the
eng	I voted in favour of this report to
eng	enable the transformation of a report
eng	which is all too often about
eng	exploitation and the law, in an area
eng	which represents between 5 and 9% of
eng	all jobs within the European Union.
eng	I voted to give discharge to Eurojust
eng	and congratulate the agency for
eng	establishing measures to estimate the
eng	market value of relevant
eng	products/services before commencing a
eng	procurement procedure. I consider this
eng	initiative an important practice to be
eng	followed by other agencies. I welcome,
eng	in addition, the agency's annual
eng	procurement plan for 2009 which greatly
eng	helped Eurojust's units and services in
eng	the management of their tenders. I
eng	consider that these initiatives improve
eng	the authorising officer's guidance and
eng	I want to inform the Commission and the
eng	Council that this is the start of
eng	Parliament's campaign to win new rights
eng	for our citizens who are the victims of
eng	I welcome the Commission communication
eng	on the SBA review as it deals, to a
eng	large extent, with the problems which
eng	SMEs are faced with and for which
eng	European and national policies will
eng	have to come up with a solution.
eng	I welcome the efforts that have been
eng	made towards clarifying Union law in
eng	order to make it more accessible to all
eng	EU citizens. I am therefore voting for
eng	this proposal for a directive on the
eng	permissible sound level and the exhaust
eng	system of motor vehicles, as I believe
eng	that the proposed system of
eng	codification drafted using a data
eng	processing system is more efficient.
eng	I welcome your statement today on
eng	Bosnia and Herzegovina - that was a
eng	fine statement, but you have failed to
eng	appoint a head for the delegation in
eng	I would add that Directive 2000/78/EC
eng	establishing a general framework for
eng	equal treatment in employment and
eng	occupation does not exclude domestic
eng	workers, so no amendment is needed for
eng	the ratification of the ILO Convention.
eng	I would congratulate the rapporteur on
eng	his excellent work, which has resulted
eng	in a report enabling us to start
eng	drawing up the next Multiannual
eng	Financial Framework (MFF) for the
eng	post-2013 period, which constitutes a
eng	challenge for the Commission and for
eng	I would like to give Mr Oettinger my
eng	support and encourage him to submit an
eng	ambitious proposal on the subject of
eng	energy efficiency in two weeks. I am
eng	very happy with the parts that we
eng	already know about, which are a mix of
eng	incentives and obligations for those
eng	affected. I do not like the fact that
eng	the Member States are supposed to set
eng	I would like to take up the subject
eng	once again of what is wrong in Greece,
eng	because I think that Mr Daul has a
eng	responsibility towards Nea Dimokratia.
eng	I would therefore like to congratulate
eng	the rapporteur on the result that has
eng	just been achieved due to an effort at
eng	finding a compromise between all the
eng	groups in an ambitious and encouraging
eng	If a 28th regime procedure is going to
eng	be instituted, in keeping with this
eng	report, this would facilitate
eng	cross-border credit-based transactions.
eng	If not, your conscience and this
eng	Chamber will hold you to account.
eng	If the costs of the umpteenth strategy
eng	will still only finance talk, I call on
eng	the European institutions to make
eng	amends to the dozens of small
eng	entrepreneurs in my region, Veneto, who
eng	have taken their lives rather than see
eng	their small businesses fail.
eng	If they are to enjoy uninterrupted
eng	connection, they must have radio
eng	frequencies dedicated entirely to them.
eng	If we can get free elections and a new
eng	government in place, the European
eng	Union, in conjunction with other
eng	international bodies, particularly the
eng	African Union, can help nurture this
eng	country along on the road to democracy
eng	and the road to economic recovery.
eng	If we really want these delegations to
eng	prevent development money ending up in
eng	the wrong hands or to prevent money
eng	leaking away into failing projects,
eng	then EU delegations will need more
eng	If you had been listening you would
eng	have heard that it fell.
eng	Impact assessments are a key instrument
eng	for the legislative process, and one of
eng	which European legislators should make
eng	greater use in future, as they show the
eng	possible consequences of their policy
eng	In 2004, when the Erasmus Mundus
eng	exchange programme was launched, with
eng	the help of a large majority in this
eng	Parliament, I got the European
eng	Commission to agree to take the
eng	necessary measures to ensure quality in
eng	this programme. A 'European Quality
eng	Charter for Mobility' was even created.
eng	In Europe, there are contractual forms
eng	that affect immigrants and women in
eng	this area of domestic service which are
eng	very precarious and contain major
eng	In a changing world, our Union needs to
eng	be more than a purely economic Union.
eng	In accordance with the EU guidelines on
eng	the death penalty, we are exerting
eng	strong pressure on the United States to
eng	abolish the death penalty at a national
eng	level, and at the level of the US
eng	federal states, and we are calling for
eng	a pardon in individual cases.
eng	In addition, allowance has been made
eng	for the possibility of a certain
eng	dependence of tolls on vehicle movement
eng	(road congestion) at peak hours - for a
eng	maximum, however, of five hours a day.
eng	I think that this solution will
eng	successfully encourage avoidance of the
eng	use of some sections of road during
eng	In addition, the young generation needs
eng	a consistent strategy on mobility for
eng	increasing development in the area of
eng	science and culture. I support measures
eng	for cultural diplomacy, which can also
eng	be helped by the work of parliamentary
eng	In any case, we had a tough struggle.
eng	In connection with the evacuation drill
eng	which took place during voting time,
eng	today, all explanations of positions
eng	adopted at today's vote will be heard
eng	tomorrow - they will be heard together
eng	with tomorrow's explanations of vote.
eng	In fact, I have a lot of faith in that.
eng	In fact, the directives entail a
eng	substantial increase in EU interference
eng	in the internal economic affairs of
eng	Member States, which suggests a sharp
eng	decline in the latter's influence.
eng	In its most recent report on these
eng	matters (February 2011), the Commission
eng	stated that Bulgaria needed to improve
eng	further the way the judiciary, police
eng	and other investigative bodies are
eng	structured, managed and cooperate.
eng	In my country and throughout Europe,
eng	there are families who struggle to feed
eng	and educate their children and do not
eng	even consider having a computer, never
eng	mind high speed broadband.
eng	In my opinion, the area where there is
eng	greatest room for improvement is in
eng	public awareness. I think it is
eng	inadequate and irresponsible to inform
eng	citizens on a given day about which
eng	food they should not buy or which food
eng	In my view, the European Centre for
eng	Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC)
eng	has done a good job, as far as I can
eng	see, but we need a better, modern
eng	reporting obligation for determining
eng	the causes and also a better system for
eng	informing the general public.
eng	In order to address and resolve this
eng	problem, Mrs Reding plans to issue a
eng	communication by the end of the year
eng	which will report on the status of the
eng	implementation of the existing
eng	directive concerning misleading and
eng	comparative advertising and on the
eng	current opportunities for revising it
eng	and which will provide an evaluation of
eng	In order to meet citizens' needs,
eng	Parliament has proposed to create, in
eng	the context of the Structural Funds, a
eng	new category of regions where GDP per
eng	capita is between 75% and 90% of the
eng	In other words, the people should not
eng	interfere in the machinations of a
eng	process of which they are the victims.
eng	I will never allow the Commission to
eng	attack France. I am voting against this
eng	In particular, I would like to stress
eng	the necessity of conducting a review of
eng	existing programmes with a cultural
eng	component and of drafting a Green Paper
eng	and a communication from the Commission
eng	outlining concrete policies for the
eng	role of culture in the EU's external
eng	In particular, these directives propose
eng	to strengthen surveillance mechanisms
eng	in a stringent manner in order to
eng	prevent any more Greek-style financial
eng	crises within the Union.
eng	In relation to my report, Baroness
eng	Ashton, I would particularly like you
eng	to take note of paragraph 6, which
eng	calls for the drafting of a White Paper
eng	with a strategic focus on the European
eng	Union's role in international
eng	organisations through to 2020.
eng	In spite of the restrictions and bans
eng	which have been introduced, much
eng	illegal fishing goes on, or even
eng	fishing that can be considered
eng	In the Commission communication to the
eng	European Parliament and the Council
eng	entitled 'GDP and beyond - Measuring
eng	progress in a changing world'
eng	(COM(2009) 433 final), it is
eng	acknowledged that 'GDP has also come to
eng	be regarded as a proxy indicator for
eng	overall societal development and
eng	progress in general' but 'does not
eng	measure environmental sustainability or
eng	social inclusion'. In a world in which
eng	people's quality of life is
eng	increasingly measured using other,
eng	non-economic factors, various
eng	international institutions, like the
eng	United Nations (UN), the World Bank and
eng	the Organisation for Economic
eng	Cooperation and Development (OECD), are
eng	currently studying the definition of
eng	new indicators, so as to measure and
eng	analyse economic and social progress.
eng	In the case of Belarus, it is not
eng	possible to fulfil this aim in its
eng	entirety due to the measures adopted.
eng	In the end it is important that we, as
eng	parliamentarians, should be able to
eng	consider issues freely and make
eng	decisions independently. I would now
eng	like to state that we parliamentarians
eng	have a lot to be proud of. If we
eng	conduct a national comparison, we will
eng	see that there are only a few Member
eng	States of the European Union who have
eng	already established a transparency
eng	register at this level.
eng	In the last section, I then propose
eng	that we in Parliament create an
eng	autonomous impact assessment structure.
eng	In the near future, there will be other
eng	power stations in other Member States
eng	which will need to be halted because
eng	they are reaching the end of their
eng	In the same connection, it is natural
eng	that the reform and harmonisation of
eng	product labelling should be assessed
eng	overall, as has now been agreed.
eng	In this case, it seems that things went
eng	In this context, the Commission will
eng	examine measures to reduce excessive
eng	dependence on external ratings, improve
eng	transparency, promote competition,
eng	introduce the principle of liability
eng	and reduce the risk of potential
eng	conflicts of interest due to the
eng	issuer-pays payment model.
eng	In this regard, it should be said that
eng	the European Arrest Warrant responds to
eng	a need, particularly in view of the
eng	fact that it is not only honest
eng	citizens who mostly take advantage of
eng	the freedom to move around the European
eng	Union, but also criminals, who do not
eng	by any means exercise their rights for
eng	tourism or business purposes, but for
eng	criminal activities, or to avoid being
eng	brought to justice in their own country
eng	or in the country in which they
eng	committed the crime.
eng	In this respect, it will be essential
eng	to achieve the full engagement of
eng	public and local authorities. A
eng	fundamental objective of innovation is
eng	to maintain a high level of prosperity
eng	in Europe. I hope the joining of forces
eng	which has been proposed will contribute
eng	to support for the process of
eng	innovation and help bring about
eng	economic stabilisation.
eng	In this way, we can also contribute -
eng	thanks to the technologies and the
eng	agricultural techniques that will be
eng	used by farmers - not only to ensuring
eng	economic competitiveness, but also to
eng	reducing the impact of agricultural
eng	activity on climate change.
eng	In view of the fact that CO2 emissions
eng	know no borders, and that after
eng	production is transferred emissions
eng	will continue, which will unavoidably
eng	have a negative impact on the
eng	environment, the European Union economy
eng	will lose out, since it is exporting
eng	In view of this, I voted in favour of
eng	this report, as it will allow the
eng	Member States, if they so wish, to also
eng	charge road users for some limited
eng	external costs, with the aim of
eng	introducing the 'polluter pays'
eng	principle to road transport.
eng	Indeed, I want to ask Mr Piebalgs in
eng	his reply to explain what the EU is
eng	doing to combat continuing and
eng	deteriorating human rights violations,
eng	in particular, concerning human rights
eng	defenders such as Hawa Abdulla from the
eng	AU-UN peace-keeping mission, who has
eng	been subject to arbitrary detention and
eng	Indeed, the conclusions of the
eng	scientific opinion given by the
eng	European Food Safety Authority (EFSA)
eng	at the end of 2007 are based on data
eng	concerning the slaughter of animals in
eng	abattoirs and which are not reliable
eng	with regard to seal hunting.
eng	Information and communications
eng	technology (ICT) is important in all
eng	innovative activity. ICT skills depend
eng	on improvements in the quality of
eng	training, support for lifelong
eng	learning, and the opportunity for those
eng	already in employment to update their
eng	own knowledge and skills continuously.
eng	Instead of lengthening the pain and
eng	piling even more burdens on the Greek
eng	economy, it would be far better to
eng	accept the inevitable and the judgment
eng	Interpretation of the Rules of
eng	Procedure: see Minutes
eng	Is that the best we can expect in this
eng	area? Do we expect nothing more of
eng	Russia's democratisation? I believe
eng	that as Parliament, we must make it
eng	clear that we do expect something; for
eng	example, fair elections - there must be
eng	It also criticises any attempt to cut
eng	the funding of the DCI and the European
eng	Development Fund, and stresses once
eng	again that not enough progress has been
eng	made with the Millennium Development
eng	Goals (MDG) and that there is a need to
eng	increase Official Development
eng	It believes this measure to be long
eng	overdue, and that budgetisation of the
eng	EDF should take place at the earliest
eng	It discusses funding for Roma
eng	communities, a subject that my
eng	political party has always opposed, and
eng	the allocation of large amounts of
eng	funding for a new round of enlargement
eng	of the European Union in the direction
eng	of the Western Balkans, another point
eng	with which I do not agree.
eng	It goes without saying that the
eng	constitution of every Member State
eng	should reflect and comply with the
eng	European values of freedom, democracy,
eng	equality, rule of law, human dignity
eng	and respect of human rights, including
eng	the rights of persons belonging to
eng	minorities, without discrimination, as
eng	laid down in Article 2 of the Treaty.
eng	It has not been possible to achieve
eng	this ambitious goal. I hope that the
eng	objectives of the Europe 2020 strategy
eng	will be met, in particular, the EU's
eng	commitment to invest 3% of gross
eng	domestic product (GDP) in research and
eng	development by 2020.
eng	It is a fact that, in Europe, we have
eng	too little funding for higher education.
eng	It is a very positive development that
eng	the adoption of this directive will end
eng	the situation in Estonia in which
eng	vehicles from other countries do not
eng	pay the tax in Estonia, but our
eng	vehicles pay in other countries.
eng	It is also essential in increasing
eng	competitiveness as the EU overcomes the
eng	It is also vital for governments to be
eng	able to undertake stimulus spending, as
eng	the Labour government did in 2008/2009,
eng	to prevent this crisis from turning
eng	into a global depression.
eng	It is both mandatory and normal
eng	practice in Germany for a legal entity
eng	to register its address in an online
eng	directory when it is founded.
eng	It is crucial, in fact, to continue
eng	along this path in order to furnish the
eng	European Union with the tools to
eng	compete with and face its main trade
eng	partners, such as the United States,
eng	Canada, China and Japan, on the
eng	It is essential to give young Europeans
eng	the tools necessary for them to be able
eng	to compete in a globalised world and
eng	for them to be able to enter the labour
eng	market using their knowledge and skills.
eng	It is good that the submitted directive
eng	emphasises better quality supervision
eng	and controls, but especially the
eng	greater transparency of these processes
eng	and public participation.
eng	It is important that this agreement be
eng	adopted, as Croatia is one of the main
eng	transit routes through which illicit
eng	drugs are smuggled into the EU, so it
eng	is vital that this country be involved
eng	in the EMCDDA's work as soon as
eng	possible, particularly bearing in mind
eng	that Croatia's accession to the EU is
eng	envisaged for the end of 2012 or
eng	It is impossible to accept that MEPs
eng	will not be subject to public scrutiny
eng	regarding the interests they defend in
eng	their role, or the pressure they are
eng	subject to or who is putting them under
eng	pressure. I therefore very much welcome
eng	the introduction of the common register
eng	of lobbyists and lobbying organisations.
eng	It is more difficult but more
eng	beneficial for the people of Europe to
eng	make progress in this area.
eng	It is not a trivial issue: the spectrum
eng	relating to economic activities
eng	currently represents 3% of European
eng	gross domestic product (GDP) and that
eng	It is not surprising that the report
eng	should conclude that a single European
eng	solution is not possible.
eng	It is only after this that we review
eng	the Schengen system and look at how it
eng	can be adjusted or improved, because we
eng	can see that there are indeed problems
eng	with it, but let us stick to this order
eng	It is quite simply necessary to have
eng	these bilateral agreements, and
eng	therefore I welcome them.
eng	It is the case that, in waiting for the
eng	implementation of a genuine common
eng	diplomacy and a genuine European
eng	defence policy, European soft power and
eng	its cultural diplomacy are some of the
eng	few means of influence at our disposal.
eng	It is therefore extremely important
eng	that the checking and assessment of the
eng	European reactors does not become a
eng	paper tiger, but that it really is a
eng	It is these citizens and their
eng	well-being that should be the main
eng	focus of democratisation, political
eng	pluralism, and respect for human rights
eng	and for religious, cultural and ethnic
eng	diversity in both South and North Sudan.
eng	It is unacceptable that, in the face of
eng	the extremely severe crisis affecting
eng	the most vulnerable economies in the
eng	EU, they are continuing to make
eng	unsupportable cofinancing demands for
eng	the use of Union funds, specifically
eng	the Structural Funds.
eng	It is vital that the international
eng	community maintains its presence and a
eng	very high level of humanitarian
eng	It is, however, not at all obvious that
eng	with an additional own resource that
eng	would reduce the dependence on GNI, we
eng	can expect a revolution in EU
eng	capacities to finance growth and
eng	It must ensure the highest possible
eng	level of European added value, it must
eng	be sensibly managed and it must support
eng	public and private resources as far as
eng	It recognises the important role that
eng	regional and local governments play in
eng	shaping European legislation, and
eng	therefore clearly differentiates
eng	between lobbyists and local and
eng	regional government officials.
eng	It should be a key element of public
eng	policy in such areas as the
eng	environment, water, energy, transport,
eng	telecommunications, health and
eng	It should not be limited to the
eng	elimination of tariff or non-tariff
eng	barriers but should represent an
eng	opportunity to take a qualitative leap
eng	in the elimination of environmental and
eng	health policy differences, and I refer,
eng	in particular, to the farming sector,
eng	the protection of animal species at
eng	risk of extinction and particular
eng	economic extractive activities that
eng	have a significant environmental
eng	impact, such as asbestos mining and oil
eng	sands drilling, or that restrict access
eng	to medicines for the poorest countries.
eng	It was also found that there was a
eng	lower take-up of fishing opportunities
eng	by long-liners, which led to a
eng	reduction in this segment in the
eng	It will be a comprehensive programme of
eng	technical assistance focused on growth
eng	and jobs, but with an emergency
eng	character because - I repeat - Greece
eng	is living in an emergency situation.
eng	It would appear that this text also
eng	allows the right to abortion in Hungary
eng	to be restricted by stating, and I
eng	quote, 'that the life of the foetus
eng	will be protected from the time of
eng	conception'. The Hungarian Government
eng	has backed up its words by action in
eng	this area by launching an anti-abortion
eng	communication campaign which would
eng	still, apparently, appear to be using
eng	funds from the European PROGRESS
eng	programme (Community Programme for
eng	Employment and Social Solidarity).
eng	Its accession to the World Trade
eng	Organisation will create numerous
eng	opportunities in economic relations
eng	between the European Union and Russia.
eng	Just as we did with dairy products when
eng	a deep crisis broke out in that sector,
eng	we need now, too, to call that surplus
eng	Ladies and gentlemen, if we understand
eng	innovation simply in terms of new
eng	products, processes and services that
eng	result in an increase in economic
eng	activity, it is essential that we equip
eng	ourselves with the instruments to
eng	measure our innovation capacity
eng	precisely in economic terms and that we
eng	do so on the basis of parameters, such
eng	as private investment and R&D,
eng	employment or the number of innovative
eng	Last week in Ireland, forest fires - on
eng	a scale not seen for a long time -
eng	caused severe destruction on lands in
eng	Donegal, Sligo and other regions of the
eng	Lastly, I should like to voice my
eng	support for two powerful ideas upheld
eng	by the Group of the European People's
eng	Party (Christian Democrats): the power
eng	conferred on the European Commission to
eng	adopt delegated acts should be reviewed
eng	every five years, and a verification
eng	clause should be introduced - the
eng	verification clause being the second
eng	powerful idea in this regulation.
eng	Launched in Budapest on 29 April, Youth
eng	at Work will bring together small and
eng	medium-sized enterprises and young job
eng	seekers and will provide information
eng	and support to inspire young people to
eng	set up their own businesses.
eng	Let me explain briefly: through the use
eng	of origin marking, buyers will be sure
eng	they are buying a textile product that
eng	is not harmful to their health nor that
eng	of their children because the labelling
eng	will comply with all the rules of this
eng	important regulation which, at the cost
eng	of significant sacrifices, European
eng	institutions have imposed on all
eng	industries in this sector.
eng	Let us also follow up on this by truly
eng	taking the steps that the knowledge
eng	provided by this measure makes possible.
eng	Let us not, therefore, ignore this
eng	reality that investment is urgently
eng	needed: all the more so if the shameful
eng	and obscurantist intervention plan
eng	drawn up by the International Monetary
eng	Fund (IMF), the European Central Bank
eng	(ECB) and European Commission is
eng	Like the rapporteur, I support the
eng	Commission's Action Plan for the
eng	development of EGNOS and Galileo, which
eng	is based on nine horizontal measures
eng	with an immediate transport application.
eng	Madam President, Commissioner, I am
eng	delighted that, in advance of the next
eng	General Assembly of the International
eng	Labour Organisation (ILO), we can
eng	debate this welcome initiative of the
eng	ILO proposing to the Member States of
eng	this organisation a convention
eng	supplemented by a recommendation on
eng	Madam President, I should like to thank
eng	the Presidency of Parliament for having
eng	allowed this debate to take place, as
eng	it was not on the agenda initially.
eng	Madam President, Mr Andor, ladies and
eng	gentlemen, I understand from what you
eng	have said, Mr Andor, that the European
eng	Commission is obviously taking notice
eng	of this subject. I also conclude that
eng	it is being handled with too much
eng	Madam President, for South Sudan, the 9
eng	July date goes before everything else;
eng	for North Sudan, although the
eng	comprehensive peace agreement may be
eng	coming to an end, its obligations do
eng	Madam President, on 9 July, South Sudan
eng	will declare independence as an
eng	English-speaking new African state.
eng	Madam President, the regulation on
eng	transitional arrangements for bilateral
eng	investment treaties is an important
eng	legislative initiative.
eng	Make the system fairer and more
eng	transparent, and then we can talk about
eng	Many points in the submitted reports go
eng	in the right direction, but at the same
eng	time they have a number of deficiencies.
eng	Member States must also cooperate with
eng	partner countries to ensure the
eng	protection of vulnerable groups and to
eng	fight gender discrimination as well as
eng	discrimination on grounds of ethnicity,
eng	religion, age and disability. I hope
eng	that the Commission will come forward
eng	with some concrete proposals which will
eng	bring about improved labour and social
eng	standards, as well as proposals to
eng	promote corporate social responsibility
eng	in its external polices.
eng	Minimum standards have therefore now
eng	been established, as domestic workers
eng	form the largest unregulated sector in
eng	More than a year ago already, the
eng	European Parliament clearly expressed
eng	its support for the idea of a
eng	democratic process which could lead to
eng	Moreover, it fails to mention the
eng	social reasons that lead to early
eng	school drop-out, to a lack of access to
eng	higher education opportunities and to
eng	youth unemployment, just so as to mask
eng	the responsibility of the neoliberal
eng	policies promoted by large companies
eng	and financial institutions.
eng	Moreover, there is already an example
eng	of good practice: our presence in the
eng	World Trade Organisation (WTO). There
eng	is, therefore, an urgent need for the
eng	EU to be represented with a single
eng	voice in the various international
eng	bodies. I think that drawing up a White
eng	Paper on this subject, as is proposed
eng	in the report, could be a good
eng	'beginning of the end' for this bizarre
eng	Mr Albertini, I am happy to stand
eng	anywhere as long as it is actually in
eng	the room - I suspect there may be a few
eng	people who would prefer it if I was not
eng	- and I am very happy to speak from the
eng	podium; it is the obvious place between
eng	the two. I do appreciate very much the
eng	work that you, Mr Albertini, and the
eng	other rapporteurs have done in
eng	producing what I think are really
eng	useful and helpful reports in terms of
eng	addressing the breadth of European
eng	Mr Itälä rightly argues in recital 5
eng	that we must take adequate measures to
eng	ensure for a responsible attitude
eng	towards our general expenditure
eng	allowance. I hope that recital will
eng	stay, because it is good for
eng	credibility and transparency.
eng	Mr President, Commissioner Šemeta,
eng	ladies and gentlemen, the process we
eng	are dealing with today - that is, the
eng	discharge for the expenditure of the
eng	European Commission - is an essential
eng	Mr President, Commissioner, the
eng	Committee on Employment and Social
eng	Affairs has set out its priorities in
eng	the light of an alarming fact: the
eng	economic, financial and social crisis
eng	is continuing to wreak havoc, with 23
eng	million people currently unemployed,
eng	including 5.2 million young people.
eng	Mr President, I had understood that a
eng	question was being asked, but one was
eng	not put to me. What I would like to say
eng	is that I still feel it is wrong that
eng	we can put in the same boat, on an
eng	equal footing, democracies such as the
eng	United States or EU Member States, and
eng	countries and societies where power is
eng	exercised in an authoritarian and
eng	totalitarian manner, with ordinary
eng	citizens suffering excessive abuses.
eng	Mr President, I wish to support this
eng	resolution on human rights violations
eng	and war crimes committed in Sri Lanka.
eng	Mr President, Mr Verhofstadt asked the
eng	Commission to rewrite the communication
eng	but I wonder if, before it is
eng	rewritten, we could get a clear answer
eng	today as to whether or not you are
eng	aiming to improve the current existing
eng	system, to temporarily close borders,
eng	or to add something to the existing
eng	Mr President, developments in
eng	Azerbaijan regarding democracy and
eng	human rights continue to be a matter of
eng	serious concern to all of us. Over the
eng	last few years, we have noted a
eng	worrying trend of increasing
eng	restrictions in this domain.
eng	Mr President, in recent years, academic
eng	and political focus on culture and
eng	education has increased dramatically,
eng	with analysis consistently highlighting
eng	these areas to be crucial not only in
eng	encouraging economic growth and social
eng	cohesion, but also in facilitating
eng	mobility for young people across Europe.
eng	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the
eng	Eurovignette and the results of the
eng	negotiations represent an example of
eng	how the Council is currently attempting
eng	to place limitations on and water down
eng	all Parliament's proposals,
eng	particularly in the field of transport
eng	Mr President, over the past three
eng	months, my office has sent emails, made
eng	phone calls and drafted lists to raise
eng	awareness of this declaration on
eng	missing persons in Cyprus.
eng	Mr President, the explosion at
eng	Chernobyl was a disaster, but let us
eng	keep it in perspective: 64 people were
eng	killed by Chernobyl radiation over 23
eng	years, and it caused an unknown
eng	proportion of 6000 cases of thyroid
eng	Mr President, these are just a few of
eng	the topics on which work has already
eng	Mr President, when the European system
eng	of protected designations of origin
eng	(PDOs), protected geographical
eng	indications (PGIs) and traditional
eng	specialities guaranteed (TSGs) was set
eng	up, equivalent systems already existed
eng	in some Member States.
eng	Mr Zver's report draws attention to
eng	numerous barriers that act as
eng	disincentives to mobility in Europe,
eng	and I would like to highlight some of
eng	Mutual acceptance of certification
eng	findings constitutes a massive benefit
eng	for the EU, given that it will
eng	establish mutual acceptance of
eng	certification findings in all areas of
eng	airworthiness for all Member States.
eng	My home city of Gdańsk is in a small
eng	group leading the Polish contest, which
eng	will be decided this month. I am a keen
eng	supporter of this candidacy whose motto
eng	is 'Cultural freedom - culture of
eng	freedom'. Gdańsk is, historically, a
eng	Hanseatic port and the birthplace of
eng	the Solidarity movement, which is
eng	synonymous with freedom.
eng	My second point is that the report says
eng	that the working languages of the EU
eng	are French, English and German.
eng	Negative ratings in the face of
eng	financial difficulties send a country
eng	into a kind of debt spiral, because a
eng	falling rating increases the cost of
eng	borrowing even more and makes the
eng	country's financial situation even
eng	Nevertheless, the Commission considers
eng	that the current ILO initiative is a
eng	good opportunity to reflect on the
eng	situation of domestic servants in
eng	Nineteen weeks later, the Irish banks
eng	collapsed and taxpayers across Europe
eng	were forced into a bail-out, and just
eng	last week we learnt that EUR 12 billion
eng	of the proposed Portuguese bail-out is
eng	Nonetheless, much more can be done to
eng	help European SMEs, specifically: the
eng	swift implementation by the Member
eng	States of the Late Payments Directive;
eng	better Commission mechanisms for
eng	encouraging the Member States to apply
eng	the principles of the SBA; adoption by
eng	the Member States, without delay, of
eng	the last remaining proposal on the
eng	European Private Company Statute; the
eng	regular application by the Commission
eng	and the Member States of the SME test
eng	as part of impact assessments; the
eng	urgently needed reduction of the
eng	bureaucratic and administrative burden
eng	on SMEs; and putting 'Erasmus for young
eng	entrepreneurs' on a permanent footing,
eng	with a sufficient budget.
eng	Not only does the regional government
eng	find itself unable to pay the wages of
eng	76 000 employees, but it still owes
eng	roughly EUR 2 billion to its various
eng	Now the Member States have two years to
eng	implement the new directive. I would
eng	like to call for this timeframe to be
eng	shortened, in particular, in the Member
eng	States where this would not present a
eng	significant problem.
eng	Nuclear accidents occur without warning
eng	Of course, all such trials by the US
eng	authorities - which, after all, is a
eng	country that is a democracy and shares
eng	our common values - must nevertheless
eng	be conducted fairly with all legal
eng	safeguards of due process, and ideally
eng	Of course, we must not forget and we
eng	cannot ignore various important issues,
eng	which continue to hinder the
eng	development of valuable relations
eng	between the EU and Russia, and
eng	especially, moreover, the fact that
eng	nearly three years after the war in
eng	Georgia, Russia continues to occupy a
eng	large part of the sovereign territory
eng	of Georgia, continues to ignore the
eng	agreement concluded in 2008, and fails
eng	to ensure proper access to these
eng	territories by the European Union
eng	On 23 and 24 March 2000, the European
eng	Council, meeting in Lisbon, set the
eng	European Union an objective: to become,
eng	by 2010, the most competitive
eng	knowledge-based economy in the world.
eng	On that occasion, the Council endorsed
eng	the Presidency's conclusions on the
eng	progress made and the need to continue
eng	to work in close cooperation with all
eng	Member States towards a solution
eng	acceptable to all parties involved.
eng	On the issue of compensation, this will
eng	be discussed this afternoon in the AGRI
eng	Council, and I am sure that my
eng	colleague, Commissioner Cioloş, is
eng	doing his utmost to identify and
eng	develop ways and means of compensating
eng	our farmers who have been suffering as
eng	a result of this problem.
eng	On the other hand, a prior full
eng	assessment of the impact of the
eng	measures proposed has not been
eng	conducted by the Commission. I think
eng	that it would have had a major impact,
eng	in particular, on Pakistan's population
eng	and this country's budget resources.
eng	On the other hand, we know that there
eng	are exceptions where export is allowed.
eng	Once again, I voted in favour of this
eng	report which points out that real
eng	savings could be made if Parliament
eng	only had one workplace, in the same
eng	city as the European Union's other
eng	institutions (in other words Brussels).
eng	The report of the Secretary-General on
eng	Parliament's preliminary draft
eng	estimates for 2011 itself draws
eng	attention to the huge annual costs
eng	arising from the geographical split of
eng	Parliament, estimated at some EUR 160
eng	000 000, which accounts for 9% of
eng	Parliament's total budget.
eng	One important aspect is the
eng	digitisation of cultural productions,
eng	along with the need to create a proper
eng	single market for online content and
eng	services which will generate additional
eng	One of the most important fields is
eng	strengthening our role and coordination
eng	in the United Nations system.
eng	One very important point is that the
eng	partnership principle must be taken to
eng	a new and better level.
eng	Opening the borders has been one of the
eng	European Union's greatest achievements.
eng	I am therefore delighted that
eng	Parliament has voted in favour of these
eng	two new States joining the Schengen
eng	Our amendments in the Committee on
eng	International Trade have been
eng	successful, firstly, in ensuring that
eng	the Commission's powers are fully
eng	respected and, secondly, in stating
eng	that legal certainty should be
eng	Our objective is to be in a position to
eng	meet the challenges which, let us not
eng	forget, threaten the very existence of
eng	mankind on this planet.
eng	Overall, I believe that the legislative
eng	package which has been presented is an
eng	appropriate response to the global
eng	crisis and the EU's current economic
eng	situation, building on the relevant
eng	legislation and complying with the
eng	Europe 2020 strategy and other
eng	strategic EU documents, and therefore I
eng	recommend adopting it in the amended
eng	Parliament has been asked to waive the
eng	parliamentary immunity of our fellow
eng	Member, Mr Severin, as a result of
eng	criminal proceedings in which he is
eng	accused of defamation under the
eng	Criminal Code of Romania.
eng	Parliament specifically welcomes the
eng	Agency as a reliable provider of
eng	independent and assured environmental
eng	information for all Union institutions,
eng	the Member States and policy-making
eng	Particular focus should be directed
eng	towards the formulation of regulation
eng	which ensures greater spectrum
eng	efficiency, better frequency planning
eng	and safeguards against anti-competitive
eng	behaviour and the taking of anti-social
eng	measures with regards to the usage of
eng	Perhaps it would still be possible to
eng	change this during the process of
eng	reaching a parliamentary decision by
eng	Point four: Russia is the neighbour of
eng	our neighbours, and I think Nizhny
eng	Novgorod would be an excellent
eng	opportunity to refer to the recently
eng	adopted ENP review document and, with
eng	reference to this document, to make
eng	sure that we are transparent in our
eng	policy vis-à-vis the neighbours we
eng	President I fear that these concerns
eng	have been exacerbated for political
eng	ends by certain factions here and
eng	elsewhere in Europe and I wish to make
eng	a clear stance regarding our future
eng	energy mix that is free from fear and
eng	panic and approaches the subject of
eng	nuclear energy based on science and
eng	evidence. I would like to thank the
eng	rapporteur and my friend and colleague
eng	Ms Edit Herczog for all their efforts
eng	Promoting labour standards through the
eng	EU's negotiations with third party
eng	countries benefits both the Member
eng	States and the third party countries.
eng	Quite apart from the fact that this
eng	puts the imported labour force in a
eng	worse position than that of the host
eng	country, it also contributes to social
eng	Recycling, air emissions, climate
eng	change, sustainable consumption and
eng	production must be monitored
eng	continuously in order to achieve
eng	progress in these areas across the
eng	whole of Europe. A system for preparing
eng	environmental economic accounts is one
eng	of the measures that would aid the
eng	collection and compilation of data
eng	regarding air emissions, environmental
eng	taxes applicable to various economic
eng	sectors and macro-economic material
eng	Registered entities will also have to
eng	declare their sources of income and
eng	interests, as well as legislative
eng	proposals submitted.
eng	Representatives of the European Union
eng	will be able to speak at the General
eng	Assembly and submit amendments agreed
eng	by the Member States of the EU. This is
eng	a joint achievement of the Member
eng	States, the Commission and Council, but
eng	also of the European Parliament.
eng	Rigour in terms of information means
eng	there is a need for equal rigour in
eng	accounting. I hope the monitoring
eng	centre will not desist from truly and
eng	accurately carrying out the mission
eng	entrusted to it, and that it will do so
eng	whilst managing its budget the best it
eng	can. I also hope that any information
eng	it gathers will help the Member States
eng	to follow closely the causes and
eng	consequences of this scourge, and to
eng	point to paths and solutions enabling
eng	affected Europeans to free themselves
eng	from the addiction destroying them and
eng	Sarajevo occupies a very important
eng	place in Europeans' historical
eng	consciousness. I support awarding the
eng	title of European Capital of Culture
eng	exceptionally to the city in 2014.
eng	Secondly, I would like to highlight the
eng	need for greater emphasis to be placed
eng	on thematic areas crucial for the
eng	future of Europe, such as energy
eng	security, the environment and health
eng	Secondly, regarding Cathy Ashton, she
eng	is not only Vice-President of the
eng	Commission, but also High
eng	Representative of the Union for Foreign
eng	Affairs and Security Policy.
eng	Secondly, we have had very good
eng	cooperation between the Commission, the
eng	ECB and the IMF, which was not
eng	self-evident when we started about a
eng	year and a half ago in terms of
eng	fire-fighting the financial turmoil.
eng	Several of the comments on increasing
eng	transparency are along the right lines.
eng	I also consider it reasonable for
eng	Parliament to award prizes, especially
eng	for the purpose of supporting European
eng	Similarly, disability should not be an
eng	obstacle either, and that is why
eng	additional funding should be set aside
eng	for young people with disabilities.
eng	Since the 'Rose Revolution', the
eng	Georgian Government has consistently
eng	implemented democratic reforms,
eng	modernising its country and carrying
eng	out difficult, unpopular economic and
eng	social reforms that are essential in
eng	Since we cannot just wish it out of
eng	existence, we need to deal with nuclear
eng	waste in the most responsible way
eng	So climate change and women is very
eng	So we also need to do something in the
eng	ETS system to make sure we have the
eng	right price and really have the
eng	incentives to move to green
eng	So, what I am asking of Ms Malmström
eng	and Mr Barroso is a rewriting of the
eng	communication and specifically of the
eng	sentence which states that a new
eng	mechanism shall be introduced for the
eng	reintroduction of border checks.
eng	Some of the amendments on which we will
eng	be voting tomorrow in plenary may now
eng	alter this compromise and balance, and
eng	I call on my fellow Members, and the
eng	rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs
eng	in particular, to come up with a
eng	balanced measure that is acceptable to
eng	South Sudan will be one of the poorest
eng	countries on earth, and if we want the
eng	Millennium Development Goals to also
eng	take effect here, it is urgently
eng	necessary that the funding made
eng	available by the Council - EUR 200
eng	million - should actually be spent on
eng	food security, education and health in
eng	this part of the world.
eng	Statistics show that around one in
eng	three young Europeans has tried an
eng	illicit drug and at least one of our
eng	citizens dies every hour from a drug
eng	Such a requirement does not conform
eng	with the principles of positive trade
eng	Sure, Member States often lack the
eng	political will to act in a unified and
eng	decisive way, and they do not want to
eng	see you strong, but believe me,
eng	Baroness Ashton, they will not support
eng	you and will not save your life as High
eng	Taking this lack into account, it's
eng	imperative to improve the governance
eng	system for the EU2020 Strategy, with
eng	greater integration of stakeholders at
eng	Thanks to the Treaty of Lisbon,
eng	Parliament has gained additional powers
eng	and corresponding responsibilities, and
eng	must now monitor the conduct of
eng	negotiations and the conclusion of air
eng	agreements more closely.
eng	That is a slippery slope that could
eng	result in serious imbalances and,
eng	hence, unfair treatment of the poorest
eng	That is simply unsellable to taxpayers
eng	around Europe and it does not enhance
eng	the credibility of the EU institutions.
eng	That is what makes European territorial
eng	cooperation the embodiment of European
eng	integration and an extraordinary source
eng	That is why creating an optional
eng	instrument that will operate as a
eng	standard for SMEs alongside national
eng	rules, by broadening the parties'
eng	options, is the right strategy.
eng	That is why this evening, at the end of
eng	this debate, the European Commission is
eng	renewing its desire to press ahead with
eng	That means that the Member States would
eng	have to give up further large portions
eng	of sovereignty over foreign policy to
eng	EU bodies, which would be charged with
eng	reaching a common position to be
eng	presented in the international
eng	community and in all multilateral
eng	forums. I cannot agree with this
eng	prospect: the Member States would no
eng	longer be able to establish their own
eng	foreign policies on the basis of what
eng	they deem to be national priorities.
eng	That will benefit everyone in rural
eng	The 1941 deportations delivered a
eng	devastating blow to democratic civil
eng	The Azerbaijani Government is losing
eng	its credibility by breaching
eng	conventions it has itself signed up to,
eng	such as the Council of Europe and the
eng	European Convention on Human Rights.
eng	The Commission also welcomes the fact
eng	that the report supports some of its
eng	suggestions addressed to the European
eng	Parliament through the Smart Regulation
eng	Communication, but we also know about
eng	the few highly problematic proposals.
eng	The Commission has not identified any
eng	infringements to date.
eng	The Commission is recommending the
eng	adoption of many documents relating to
eng	migration in May and June. I would like
eng	to express the hope that, in
eng	formulating these documents, the
eng	Commission will maintain a measure of
eng	detachment and a cool head.
eng	The Commission representatives on the
eng	governing boards of agencies take the
eng	need for quantitative and qualitative
eng	performance criteria very seriously and
eng	make every effort to ensure that they
eng	The Commission will present its
eng	proposals for the next multiannual
eng	financial framework at the end of June.
eng	The Commissioner told Parliament's
eng	committee one month ago, when Mr Cadec
eng	put this question to her, that she was
eng	not mindful to support subsidies to
eng	compensate for the extra cost of fuel.
eng	The Council and Commission have noted
eng	that Japan's capacity to remove
eng	regulatory barriers to trade is a
eng	precondition for launching negotiations
eng	on the EU-Japan Free Trade Agreement
eng	(FTA), thus fostering closer economic
eng	integration between the two strategic
eng	The Court of Auditors Annual Report for
eng	2009 found the highest error rate to be
eng	in payments under the EU's cohesion
eng	The EIB intended to supplement the
eng	loans for medium-sized businesses with
eng	EUR 1 billion a year. I would like to
eng	ask the Commission at what stage of
eng	implementation this programme is at,
eng	whether it intends to top up the
eng	funding, and whether these funds are
eng	distributed equally to all Member
eng	The EU decided to set up its own global
eng	navigation satellite system for two key
eng	reasons: firstly, Europe's independence
eng	from other global navigation systems
eng	and autonomy, and secondly, to gain a
eng	share in this fast growing worldwide
eng	high-tech market, which today, to a
eng	large extent, is dominated by the US.
eng	Indirect benefits of the programme are
eng	estimated to be around EUR 60 billion
eng	per year (including the downstream and
eng	upstream market and public benefits).
eng	GNSS is seen as a disruptive
eng	technology, with high potential to
eng	create innovations, build up a
eng	high-tech knowledge base and increase
eng	productivity in many sectors.
eng	The EU is, in fact, the only trading
eng	block that does not provide direct
eng	funding to its GNSS programme.
eng	The EU's EGNOS and Galileo projects can
eng	contribute to competitiveness in every
eng	area of this sector of services,
eng	because they are markedly better and
eng	more accurate than the GPS system while
eng	also being compatible with it.
eng	Unfortunately, the countries in the
eng	east and south of the Union are still
eng	not covered by the EGNOS system.
eng	The Europe 2020 strategy lists the key
eng	factors for smart, sustainable and
eng	inclusive growth (increasing the
eng	employment rate, training, and
eng	eradicating poverty). What is needed,
eng	as far as vocational education and
eng	training are concerned, is to take
eng	practical steps at EU level and in
eng	Member States for putting the strategy
eng	The European Council has also discussed
eng	the situation in our neighbourhood, in
eng	particular the implementation of the
eng	Partnership for Democracy and Shared
eng	Prosperity with the Southern
eng	The European Parliament approved the
eng	provisions set out in this Green Paper,
eng	but the EU's strategy on forests should
eng	be strengthened, the objective being to
eng	improve the management and conservation
eng	The European Social Fund should become
eng	a political priority in order to
eng	achieve social and employment goals.
eng	The European Union must enable the
eng	creation of new financing instruments
eng	promoting research spending and private
eng	The European Union's small and
eng	medium-sized companies should also
eng	receive particular attention and, as
eng	such, it will be appropriate to insist
eng	on the need to clarify the budgetary
eng	implications of the Europe 2020
eng	strategy's flagship initiatives.
eng	The Foundation must therefore take
eng	steps to improve its evaluation and
eng	review procedure to avoid the
eng	repetition of such errors in the future.
eng	The Hungarian Presidency has some
eng	important success stories under its
eng	belt: the Danube strategy and the
eng	adoption of the Roma strategy.
eng	The MEDIA programme is celebrating 20
eng	years at the Cannes Festival this year
eng	and is supporting 20 of the competing
eng	films as well as festivals, performing
eng	arts and large exhibitions, which are
eng	taking place throughout the year and
eng	The Northern army has occupied Abyei
eng	and 15 000 people have taken flight. I
eng	believe that we, the European Union,
eng	must help in a very tangible way as we
eng	did before and that this must take the
eng	form of getting food and humanitarian
eng	aid for the refugees moving as soon as
eng	possible and preparing the emergency
eng	humanitarian aid for the refugees.
eng	The Russia of today should not see this
eng	as a political attack, but as an offer
eng	of support in engaging with its own
eng	history, which, just like the history
eng	of the other countries in Europe, is
eng	characterised by positive as well as
eng	The Spanish State is a paradigmatic
eng	example of that: it is attempting to
eng	meet requirements by passing its
eng	deficit on to the autonomous
eng	governments and local councils.
eng	The UK Government is looking into HGV
eng	charges to bring us in line with Europe
eng	The Waste Shipments Regulation
eng	prohibits exports of hazardous waste to
eng	developing countries, as well as
eng	exports outside the Union and the
eng	European Free Trade Association (EFTA)
eng	countries of waste intended for
eng	The adoption of a Parliament resolution
eng	on the European fisheries sector crisis
eng	due to the rise in oil prices is an
eng	opportunity for me to remind you how
eng	urgent it is for us to come to the aid
eng	The agreement will be applied by
eng	parties, in their capacities as port
eng	states, for vessels not entitled to fly
eng	their flags, while seeking entry to
eng	ports or while they are in port.
eng	The aim of their work is not to produce
eng	added value, but to provide care or
eng	services similar to the tasks which
eng	women usually carry out free of charge
eng	The answer to the pressure of migration
eng	is not the reintroduction of internal
eng	border control, but the acceleration of
eng	the ongoing negotiations for the
eng	purpose of adopting the refugee
eng	package, the common European migration
eng	policy and the Schengen evaluation
eng	system as soon as possible.
eng	The average additional cost to hauliers
eng	should not exceed 4 euro cents per
eng	vehicle per kilometre, and the least
eng	polluting vehicles, driving during
eng	off-peak times, would be exempt.
eng	The calls for appropriate verification
eng	as regards financing the activities of
eng	those who register: here I can assure
eng	you that the Commission is already
eng	performing random checks on all the
eng	registrants that are already in the
eng	register and I am sure that these
eng	activities will even increase once we
eng	manage the register jointly.
eng	The codification of the existing
eng	legislative texts is the result of
eng	approximating the legislation of the
eng	Member States to the establishment of
eng	technical rules on the permissible
eng	sound level and the exhaust system of
eng	motor vehicles, which promote
eng	environmental sustainability at
eng	The concerns about the excessive use of
eng	detention and custody measures and of
eng	travel restrictions also give the
eng	impression of an arbitrary approach to
eng	The coordination of 27 different
eng	foreign and security policies is not
eng	the easiest of tasks, and you cannot
eng	blame the captain alone for the
eng	The cultural and creative industries
eng	sector is made up of enterprises with
eng	great economic potential because they
eng	generate employment, growth and wealth,
eng	and are responsible for the social and
eng	cultural integration of citizens.
eng	The current political situation in
eng	North Africa and the Middle East has
eng	exacerbated the problem.
eng	The decision on admitting Romania and
eng	Bulgaria to the Schengen area now
eng	remains a purely political one.
eng	The development of these systems will
eng	make an essential contribution to the
eng	development of European aviation
eng	transport and to a more economical and
eng	efficient system of rail and road
eng	transport. A problem for the
eng	development of these applications and
eng	for completing the systems on time may
eng	be a lack of investment.
eng	The discussions were lengthy, but the
eng	good news is that we did not permit the
eng	attempts to make ad hoc changes to the
eng	Schengen membership criteria.
eng	The economic crisis should not be a
eng	reason for education spending cuts,
eng	because combating the impacts of the
eng	crisis requires that young people
eng	receive higher levels of education.
eng	The enhancement of economic governance
eng	must be based on a robust framework for
eng	preventing and correcting macroeconomic
eng	imbalances, minimum requirements for
eng	national budgetary frameworks, enhanced
eng	financial market regulation and
eng	supervision, and a credible, permanent
eng	crisis resolution mechanism. I think
eng	that coherence is required among
eng	policies aimed at growth and creating
eng	sustainable jobs, with a particular
eng	focus on the development and
eng	strengthening of the internal market,
eng	fostering international trade and
eng	competitiveness and providing an
eng	effective framework for preventing and
eng	correcting excessive budgetary
eng	The exemptions for EURO V and EURO VI
eng	are also positive, as well as the fact
eng	that the Member States have again
eng	committed to regulating the
eng	interoperability of toll systems, as it
eng	is a thorn in our sides that that is
eng	The fact is that there have been over 2
eng	000 infections and more than 20 people
eng	The failure today inside and outside
eng	the EU to comply with basic
eng	international social standards
eng	constitutes a form of social and
eng	environmental dumping detrimental to
eng	both European enterprises and EU and
eng	non-EU workers and citizens.
eng	The financing instrument for
eng	development cooperation is aimed at
eng	helping poorer partner countries in the
eng	field of trade and regional
eng	integration, the natural environment
eng	and the management of natural
eng	resources, infrastructure, water and
eng	energy, rural development, agriculture
eng	and food security, human development
eng	and social cohesion.
eng	The first thing I want to do is to
eng	welcome the fact that it is going to be
eng	a Pillar Two structure, because I think
eng	that is what we are all agreed on.
eng	The fuel price is high, yet the price
eng	of fish is low, at a record low, in
eng	The goals of introducing complete
eng	broadband coverage of the EU by 2013
eng	and universal high-speed Internet
eng	access by 2020 are praiseworthy, but
eng	perhaps not entirely realistic.
eng	The identification system, described as
eng	an 'alert mechanism', uses both a
eng	scoreboard of quantitative indicators
eng	and qualitative assessments. I believe
eng	that this scoreboard is important in
eng	terms of giving us a general and
eng	complete overview, and I therefore
eng	believe it should be a flexible and
eng	adaptable instrument so that it can be
eng	modified and adapted to varying
eng	requirements and situations, clearly
eng	guaranteeing a framework of legal
eng	certainty. I hope that Parliament will
eng	reach a final agreement and approve the
eng	entire governance package as quickly as
eng	possible, in order to send a strong and
eng	unified message to the public and the
eng	markets and to stop speculation.
eng	The incumbent Hungarian Government
eng	failed the stress test you envision,
eng	Commissioner, because it has repeatedly
eng	impeded the construction of the NATO
eng	radar facility, which would have
eng	provided greater protection for the
eng	Paks nuclear power plant against
eng	aircraft attacks than the protection we
eng	have today, for the past seven years.
eng	The intermediate category contradicts
eng	the principle of converging European
eng	regions whose development is below the
eng	average European Union level.
eng	The joint long, analytical and
eng	preparatory work has resulted, in my
eng	opinion, in increasing transparency and
eng	tighter management discipline.
eng	The latter represents a key piece of
eng	information for the consumer before a
eng	product is purchased.
eng	The main aim of the INDECT project
eng	(Intelligent information system
eng	supporting observation, searching and
eng	detection for security of citizens in
eng	urban environment), which is
eng	implemented by the AGH University of
eng	Science and Technology in Kraków, is
eng	the development of research into
eng	information technologies which increase
eng	the safety of citizens of urban areas.
eng	The management, staff and governance
eng	structure of the new ECRF would be
eng	fully independent and autonomous. I
eng	welcome the proposal that CRAs'
eng	exposure to civil liability in the
eng	event of gross negligence or misconduct
eng	be defined on a consistent basis across
eng	the EU. Furthermore, there is a need to
eng	increase supervisors' responsibilities,
eng	capacity, powers and resources for
eng	monitoring, assessing and overseeing
eng	the adequacy of the internal models,
eng	for imposing prudential measures and
eng	conducting investigations and
eng	The ministers of the Weimar initiative
eng	have raised this in a letter to you,
eng	The motion for a resolution shows
eng	clearly that there are still serious
eng	shortcomings over fulfilment of the
eng	relevant provisions of the Treaty of
eng	The negotiation and signing of
eng	fisheries partnership agreements is in
eng	line with the EU's general objective of
eng	maintaining and preserving the
eng	activities of its fishing fleet,
eng	particularly the long-distance fleet,
eng	so the conclusion of this document is
eng	crucial to pursuing the foreign policy
eng	objectives of the common fisheries
eng	The new instrument must primarily fund
eng	measures which fulfil the criteria for
eng	ODA (Official Development Assistance)
eng	as defined by the OECD Development
eng	Assistance Committee.
eng	The next item is the debate on six
eng	motions for resolution on Guantánamo:
eng	imminent death penalty decision.
eng	The nuclear stress tests should not
eng	only help the Commission revise the
eng	safety directive, but should also be
eng	included in the Commission report on
eng	the external dimension of energy policy
eng	which will soon be published.
eng	The only long-term solution to this
eng	problem is for the Greeks to
eng	reintroduce the drachma, which could be
eng	devalued on its own.
eng	The outcomes show that this fund has
eng	been the most effective tool to date
eng	for accomplishing the goals enshrined
eng	in the Treaty on European Union and the
eng	The petitioners assert that the local
eng	threshold for carrying out an
eng	environmental impact assessment (EIA),
eng	which was 20 hectares at the time, was
eng	not adhered to; that instead, the
eng	project was artificially subdivided
eng	into smaller parts and that in reality,
eng	the 20 hectare threshold was exceeded.
eng	The pre-school period being the most
eng	important for the child's emotional and
eng	social development, those working with
eng	these children should have the required
eng	The problem could only be overcome
eng	thanks to the diligence of the
eng	ambassadors of Romania and Bulgaria,
eng	who requested the declassification of
eng	the reports and their submission to
eng	Parliament, so enabling Members of this
eng	House to have access to the content of
eng	the evaluations, recommendations and
eng	The project encourages exchanges of
eng	best practice, in particular, involving
eng	precarious workers' collective
eng	representation. A second call for
eng	proposals, to be issued this year, will
eng	relate more specifically to action to
eng	improve the rights of the poorest
eng	workers, including domestic workers.
eng	The proposal states that the further
eng	enlargement of the United Nations
eng	Security Council in order to include
eng	the EU is a key factor for effectively
eng	pursuing the objectives mentioned above.
eng	The protocol provides for a Union
eng	contribution to the Seychelles of EUR
eng	16.8 million over three years, of which
eng	EUR 2.22 million per year will go
eng	towards support for the Seychelles'
eng	The question is what role will the
eng	European Commission play in future when
eng	implementing all the points in the 2020
eng	programme we have presented today. I
eng	would like to see the Commission choose
eng	a stronger role for itself, rather than
eng	delegating all the tasks to others.
eng	The rapporteur rightly warns of the
eng	Bulgaria-Turkey-Greece region in terms
eng	of illegal immigration. I agree with
eng	him when he points to the need for
eng	Bulgaria to adopt additional measures,
eng	including a special plan that includes
eng	measures to be applied at the moment of
eng	entry to the Schengen area, and an
eng	approach to combating a potential sharp
eng	increase in migration pressure common
eng	to Greece, Turkey and Bulgaria.
eng	The reason that Greeks are on the
eng	streets protesting is that they
eng	understand perfectly well what the
eng	consequence of this EU/IMF takeover
eng	will be. The money is not going to
eng	ordinary Greek people, it is going to
eng	those financial institutions which hold
eng	Greek government debt.
eng	The regions will then set and agree
eng	very realistic but also ambitious and
eng	quantifiable targets together with us
eng	in the Commission in a partnership and
eng	investment agreement so that, at the
eng	end of the period, we will be clearly
eng	able to see whether or not the
eng	objectives agreed between us have been
eng	achieved or perhaps even exceeded.
eng	The report also mentions that the
eng	common agricultural policy should be
eng	fairer and more equitable, with a
eng	distribution of financial resources
eng	between countries that is more
eng	balanced, and a system of direct
eng	support for farmers that is fairer and
eng	based on environmental and social
eng	The report calls on Member States to
eng	exchange good practices regarding their
eng	vocational education system and
eng	training systems combined with work
eng	experience, which should be extended in
eng	many Member States, particularly in
eng	The report is balanced because it
eng	focuses on animal welfare, the problems
eng	of antibiotic resistance and
eng	cost-effectiveness as far as the farms
eng	The report seeks to correct the
eng	vulnerabilities of national economies
eng	by increasing - excessively in my view
eng	- the authority of the EU over the
eng	Member States themselves, thus
eng	sacrificing their freedom and powers in
eng	relation to finance. I therefore cannot
eng	vote in favour of this report.
eng	The reports on the CFSP of the EU and
eng	its role on the international stage,
eng	which was supported by the main
eng	coalition of the political
eng	representatives of capital in the
eng	European Parliament, namely the
eng	conservatives, social democrats and
eng	liberals, illustrate its acutely
eng	reactionary character and
eng	anti-grassroots role.
eng	The response to these challenges will
eng	have to be sought in the Europe 2020
eng	strategy, which should be the policy
eng	reference of the next MFF.
eng	The right systematically opposed the
eng	amendments that I tabled on behalf of
eng	the Group of the Progressive Alliance
eng	of Socialists and Democrats in the
eng	European Parliament in order to rule
eng	out any liberalisation of public
eng	services, strongly condemn child
eng	labour, request legally binding clauses
eng	on corporate social responsibility and
eng	demand respect for the principle of
eng	equal pay for equal work with regard to
eng	Indians who will come and work in
eng	Europe in the future.
eng	The sarcophagus is not yet safe, which
eng	is why new financial resources are
eng	required to put this in order. I have
eng	not yet heard any plans for what to do
eng	with the nuclear waste lying about the
eng	site; the disposal of this material is
eng	The second thought is that mention has
eng	been made of the big test for Europe
eng	and of the concern that the project
eng	could perhaps even fail and that old
eng	ghosts that we had thought we had
eng	eradicated could return to the European
eng	Union. I would like to turn all of this
eng	around and look at it in a positive
eng	The sole response has been that only
eng	Romanian legislation and the country's
eng	constitution are applicable.
eng	The structural funds were set up mainly
eng	to even out differences between
eng	individual regions, and they should
eng	therefore be directed particularly
eng	towards the most backward parts of the
eng	EU, in other words towards convergence
eng	Objective 1. The richer regions will
eng	benefit from this through increased
eng	market opportunities for their products
eng	The talk in our media is about rescuing
eng	Greece, giving assistance to Portugal,
eng	and helping Ireland, but that is not
eng	how the peoples in the recipient
eng	The third point is that Europe cannot
eng	be founded on values of human rights
eng	and social rights and develop the
eng	relevant EU acquis without also
eng	developing the protection of wages, the
eng	protection of working hours, the
eng	protection of health, knowledge of the
eng	demands of domestic work, and without
eng	providing domestic workers with a
eng	certain number of guarantees. I wish to
eng	sound a word of warning, which is that
eng	this should not lead to the integration
eng	of workers that are in a totally
eng	The trend towards suburbanisation, the
eng	concentration of deprivation and
eng	unemployment in urban neighbourhoods,
eng	increased congestion and other problems
eng	of similar complexity require solutions
eng	in the fields of transport and housing,
eng	as well as in training and employment
eng	schemes which must be tailored to local
eng	The use of any products of animal
eng	origin must be clearly shown on the
eng	label of the textile product.
eng	The women in particular are looking for
eng	the stronger voice that they believe
eng	they have been promised in the future
eng	of Egypt. I met one woman who will be a
eng	presidential candidate and who is
eng	determined to show that women have that
eng	role to play in Egypt. I have talked
eng	with many government ministers, and let
eng	me give you the example of the Planning
eng	Minister, Fayza Aboulnaga.
eng	Then we will have an investment policy
eng	There are increasingly large economic
eng	divergences and social inequalities
eng	caused by the EU's neoliberal
eng	guidelines and policies, and by the
eng	increasingly unfair sharing and
eng	distribution of national income, both
eng	at EU level and at national level.
eng	There are three points that I want to
eng	There have been referenda in Member
eng	States and they have been ignored.
eng	There is a need to enhance, stimulate
eng	and secure the financing of research
eng	and development in the European Union
eng	via a significant increase in relevant
eng	expenditure from 2013 onwards, because
eng	such an increase in funding, ideally by
eng	increasing the budget, must foster
eng	sustainable growth and competition via
eng	There is an inherent conflict of
eng	interest if market participants devise
eng	internal credit risk assessments for
eng	their own regulatory capital
eng	requirements. I see the need to
eng	increase supervisors' responsibilities,
eng	capacity, powers and resources for
eng	monitoring, assessing and overseeing
eng	the adequacy of the internal models and
eng	for imposing prudential measures. I
eng	believe that credit ratings must serve
eng	the purpose of increasing information
eng	to the market in a manner that provides
eng	investors with a consistent assessment
eng	of credit risk across sectors and
eng	countries, and consider it important to
eng	enable users to better scrutinise CRAs.
eng	There is no need to stress the
eng	importance of this initiative.
eng	There is talk about smart urban
eng	development and about the need for
eng	cities to improve and modernise their
eng	infrastructure and the services they
eng	There was a conference beforehand
eng	specifically called e-G8, attended by
eng	some of the big players in the Internet
eng	business and the authorities.
eng	Therefore I would both ask and call
eng	upon the European Commission to conduct
eng	long-term and comprehensive research
eng	into the health-related consequences of
eng	the Chernobyl disaster.
eng	Therefore, I personally support Mr
eng	Falbr and his report. I am certain that
eng	it will also lead to improvements in
eng	these rules in Europe as well.
eng	Therefore, before a decision is made on
eng	a further financial commitment from the
eng	EU budget in the next Multiannual
eng	Financial Framework, a clear assessment
eng	of all the possible technical options
eng	and related costs and benefits needs to
eng	be presented by the Commission.
eng	Therefore, some aspects of the
eng	resolution deserve our support,
eng	specifically the criticism of the lack
eng	'of transparency with regard to the
eng	composition and work of the
eng	Commission's internal advisory
eng	committee on public procurement (ACPP)
eng	and the role and competences of the
eng	Advisory Committee on the Opening-Up of
eng	Public Procurement (CCO)'. We also
eng	agree with the call for 'the Commission
eng	to take steps to ensure that the
eng	composition of both this committee and
eng	the planned new advisory committee on
eng	public/private partnerships is
eng	balanced, including trade unionists and
eng	representatives of the business
eng	community, in particular, small and
eng	medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), and
eng	that they work in a transparent manner'.
eng	Therefore, this debate is a golden
eng	opportunity to give an account of what
eng	it has achieved on a number of
eng	dossiers, in close cooperation with
eng	These Eurobonds can be issued by the
eng	EFSF, by the ESM or by a new European
eng	agency in the future.
eng	These are the principles behind our SME
eng	policy as presented in the review of
eng	the Small Business Act for Europe. I
eng	will outline five avenues of work in
eng	the frame of your five questions in the
eng	oral question in my response on behalf
eng	These demands include stronger
eng	oversight of risks that a firm takes
eng	on, high standards of independence and
eng	diversity for members of firms' boards,
eng	including better gender balance and,
eng	crucially, transparency around pay, so
eng	shareholders and the public can hold
eng	These instruments provide for minimum
eng	standards which should underpin the
eng	adoption of measures by States in order
eng	to monitor, control and inspect
eng	foreign-flagged fishing vessels wishing
eng	to use their harbours.
eng	These proposals are a good starting
eng	point, but I need a few more things on
eng	These two anniversaries remind us how
eng	much has changed in Europe and how we
eng	Europeans were able to push through
eng	changes in Central and Eastern Europe
eng	with minimal losses, which culminated
eng	in the reunification of Eastern and
eng	They are in oil, they are in the North
eng	of Sudan, but it is definitely a great
eng	help when the broader international
eng	community tries to find a solution to
eng	They do not need to be added to this
eng	Register: but, if they have separate
eng	offices exclusively tasked with
eng	maintaining contact with European
eng	institutions, they must be included in
eng	their Register, though subject to a
eng	different legal regime to stakeholders.
eng	They must be given greater
eng	encouragement by making the rules for
eng	accessing funds more flexible and by
eng	They were given the best possible
eng	treatment and the best possible care at
eng	a time when the Republic of Cuba was in
eng	a very difficult economic situation.
eng	Thirdly, confirming 2013 as the date to
eng	free the 800 MHz digital dividend band,
eng	while recognising the need for
eng	derogations until 2015.
eng	This Agreement will enable duplication
eng	of procedures to be kept to a minimum
eng	and mutual certification to be
eng	accepted: consequently, the financial
eng	savings and simplification of
eng	bureaucratic procedures will be of
eng	significance and have very positive
eng	repercussions for our businesses.
eng	This agreement is of mutual benefit to
eng	the EU and Seychelles: on the one hand,
eng	is makes a substantial contribution to
eng	the stabilisation of the European
eng	canned tuna market through the granting
eng	of fishing licences for tuna, and thus
eng	promotes the creation of 760 jobs in
eng	Europe; and on the other hand, thanks
eng	to the implementation of the financial
eng	contribution's sectoral support,
eng	Seychelles is increasing its stock
eng	management and fisheries monitoring
eng	This balancing of payments will not
eng	just be fairer, but will also better
eng	mobilise the various structures
eng	involved in agricultural production in
eng	order to respond to the new objectives
eng	that we are setting ourselves, because
eng	the historical examples of payments
eng	based on allocations received
eng	beforehand are no longer justified in
eng	the current context, in which we are
eng	now setting very clear objectives for
eng	the future common agricultural policy.
eng	This connection will allow all Union
eng	countries to have access to online data
eng	about stowaways attempting to reach
eng	Europe and ensure more effective
eng	control at the European Union's
eng	This directive is designed to ensure
eng	that Member States establish a national
eng	regulatory and organisational framework
eng	and draw up appropriate national
eng	programmes for spent fuel and
eng	radioactive waste management,
eng	regardless of the perspectives of
eng	nuclear power and non-power
eng	This extension is aimed at addressing
eng	the widespread economic crisis, given
eng	that terminating trade preferences
eng	would compromise these countries'
eng	economic recovery, and would have
eng	consequences for the whole
eng	stabilisation and transition process of
eng	the Western Balkans.
eng	This grants the Executive Director of
eng	the European Network and Information
eng	Security Agency discharge in respect of
eng	the implementation of the Agency's
eng	budget for the financial year 2009.
eng	This includes the harmonisation of size
eng	labelling, social economic labelling
eng	and, most worryingly, a radio frequency
eng	identification tag which would increase
eng	costs for business and prices for the
eng	This is a forward-looking draft report,
eng	and while it is not the finished
eng	article, it is undoubtedly a way of
eng	safeguarding the legitimacy of the
eng	activities and decisions of the
eng	European institutions.
eng	This is a time to try to understand
eng	each other's problems but also respect
eng	each other's differences.
eng	This is an initiative of the Committee
eng	on International Trade, of which I am
eng	chair, and it is as chair that I am
eng	asking this question, in relation to
eng	which the political groups have reached
eng	agreement by consensus. I am pleased to
eng	be asking this question, which has had
eng	the approval of the political group
eng	coordinators on my committee and which
eng	seeks a response from the European
eng	Commission on a range of concerns
eng	regarding the state of play of the
eng	EU-India Free Trade Agreement (FTA)
eng	negotiations, which have been ongoing
eng	This is due to a number of fundamental
eng	reasons: it is our contention that at a
eng	time of ongoing fiscal consolidation
eng	across Member States, it is totally
eng	unacceptable that the EU's large
eng	Cohesion budget should remain untouched
eng	This is not demagogy but simple ...
eng	This is precisely what countries such
eng	as Bulgaria and Romania have done, and
eng	it is precisely why we have helped
eng	Greece, by means of a Frontex mission
eng	there on the Turkish-Greek border.
eng	This is the framework, of course, that
eng	was already outlined during the
eng	referendum process It is important that
eng	this continues, so as to ensure that
eng	the political will of both states and
eng	of the international community is put
eng	into practice in the form of genuine
eng	development projects for citizens of
eng	This is understandable, because,
eng	alongside tax policy and domestic
eng	policy, an independent foreign policy
eng	is one of the key features, you might
eng	almost say an identifying feature, of
eng	national sovereignty.
eng	This is why I voted for this report. I
eng	welcome the fact that Mr Coelho has
eng	mentioned the significance of the
eng	emigration pressure from Turkey on
eng	Bulgaria and Greece.
eng	This is why we call on the Commission
eng	and Member States to take the necessary
eng	measures by 2015 to ensure that at
eng	least 50% of public procurement
eng	transactions are carried out
eng	electronically, in keeping with the
eng	commitment made by Member State
eng	governments in Manchester in 2005.
eng	This leads me to my last point. I think
eng	it is regrettable that few of our
eng	innovative SMEs grow into larger
eng	companies and that there are fewer
eng	young, R&D-intensive, innovative firms
eng	in the EU than in the USA.
eng	This means, first of all,
eng	conditionality: readiness not only to
eng	suggest and implore, but also to cause
eng	pain, i.e. to apply real sanctions to
eng	regimes which do not respect even the
eng	lives of their subjects. I agree that
eng	sanctions against Syria have to include
eng	hundreds of people, not just a dozen.
eng	This new framework aims to promote
eng	competition and strengthen the
eng	integration of EU policies in order to
eng	consolidate the Europe 2020 strategy,
eng	in favour of big companies and
eng	financial institutions, and of the
eng	concentration and centralisation of
eng	This point is extremely important for
eng	the Azores in view of the fact that the
eng	sector plays a strategic role and
eng	quotas have been very important to milk
eng	producers until now. I must emphasise
eng	this, because alternatives to the milk
eng	quota scheme have not yet been put
eng	This proposal relates to amendments to
eng	the Community Customs Code and its
eng	implementing rules, concerning customs
eng	security measures for goods that are
eng	exported to or imported from non-EU
eng	This report address some of these
eng	issues, but it then limits itself to
eng	seeking to levy a new tax on heavy
eng	goods vehicles, to be added to the
eng	existing ones, some of which have been
eng	increased recently in Portugal, such as
eng	the 'shadow tolls'. The effectiveness
eng	of these is doubtful in terms of the
eng	effective pursuit of the stated
eng	objectives, while they represent an
eng	additional burden and may result in
eng	many companies going out of business
eng	given the current economic and social
eng	This report considers whether the
eng	review of the Seventh Framework
eng	Programme for research and
eng	technological development (FP7) may
eng	offer an opportunity to consolidate the
eng	golden triangle of knowledge, education
eng	and research that is the key to
eng	Europeans' destiny. I welcome the level
eng	of participation and excellence in
eng	project selection but regret, however,
eng	that the success rate under this
eng	programme generally remains quite low
eng	and is a disincentive, particularly for
eng	SMEs. I support, within the framework
eng	of the 'People' chapter, the Marie
eng	Curie Actions, which are of great value
eng	to researchers in their career and
eng	acknowledge that 'Joint Technological
eng	Initiatives' (JTIs) assist the
eng	competitiveness of European industry.
eng	This report is entirely consistent with
eng	policies of increased liberalisation,
eng	especially in the public service
eng	sector, and with standards which have
eng	deleterious effects not only on the
eng	supply of medicinal products, but also
eng	on the development of research.
eng	This report provides for a framework to
eng	be established in order that Parliament
eng	can undertake its obligations under the
eng	Lisbon Treaty in regard to
eng	international air agreements.
eng	This report, drafted by Mr Casini,
eng	concerns the conclusion of an
eng	interinstitutional agreement between
eng	Parliament and the Commission on a
eng	common transparency register. I would
eng	like to highlight that Parliament was
eng	the first institution to analyse the
eng	phenomenon of pressure groups, having
eng	launched the register for lobbyists in
eng	This resolution covers a range of
eng	important themes. I particularly
eng	support the reservations expressed by
eng	the European Parliament in relation to
eng	the possible negative impact on
eng	European agriculture.
eng	This situation is unfortunate, since we
eng	had made a lot of progress over recent
eng	months on the issues in the novel foods
eng	This transparency register may be just
eng	a small victory, however it can be seen
eng	as a move in the same direction as
eng	Washington D.C., where the Lobbying Act
eng	on Disclosure has existed for some time.
eng	This welcomes the fact that the Court
eng	of Auditors has managed to produce,
eng	every year, more and better special
eng	reports; regrets the fact that,
eng	unfortunately, they do not always get
eng	the political attention they deserve
eng	because of the rules applicable in
eng	Parliament; points out that those
eng	special reports are of great importance
eng	when reflecting on and changing and/or
eng	adapting programmes and projects,
eng	because they can result in a more
eng	efficient use of human and budgetary
eng	resources; and appreciates the positive
eng	attitude of the Commission to those
eng	processes and its willingness to take
eng	prompt action to remedy most of the
eng	shortcomings noted by the Court of
eng	Auditors in those reports.
eng	This will help to alter the current
eng	absurd and unfair situation, where the
eng	amount of support can differ by up to a
eng	factor of as much as six, thereby
eng	putting farmers from several Member
eng	States in unequal circumstances and
eng	distorting competition between European
eng	farmers. I should like to emphasise
eng	that the transition period must be as
eng	short as possible, and I consider that
eng	for those Member States whose farmers
eng	receive the smallest direct payments,
eng	the equalisation process must begin as
eng	early as 2014. A transition period that
eng	lasted up to as late as 2020 would mean
eng	that a whole generation of farmers
eng	would continue to be forced to work in
eng	circumstances of unfair competition.
eng	This would include improving investment
eng	conditions and development of the
eng	internal market, while also taking into
eng	account the specific priorities and
eng	needs of the Member States.
eng	Those who do more, those who show that
eng	they deserve more, will receive more.
eng	Through today's resolution Parliament
eng	grants the Director of the European
eng	Centre for Disease Prevention and
eng	Control discharge in respect of the
eng	implementation of the Centre's budget
eng	for the financial year 2009.
eng	Thus, the Digital Agenda, the digital
eng	economy and this, the first policy
eng	programme for five years, which have
eng	just been adopted, are vital for the
eng	development of the Internal Market.
eng	To address this issue, since 1994,
eng	there has been an interinstitutional
eng	agreement between Parliament, the
eng	Commission and the Council on an
eng	accelerated working method for the
eng	adoption of codified acts. I am
eng	pleased, therefore, that we can finally
eng	adopt a directive codifying Council
eng	Directive 80/720/EEC of 24 June 1980,
eng	and which approximates the legislation
eng	of the Member States on the operating
eng	space, access to the driving position
eng	and the doors and windows of wheeled
eng	agricultural or forestry tractors.
eng	To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, we
eng	ask that before Europe declares itself
eng	willing to open negotiations on the
eng	conclusion of a free trade agreement,
eng	it resolutely defines the Community
eng	interest that it intends to protect and
eng	specifies the areas in which it will
eng	request reciprocity from Japan.
eng	To put it plainly, either the Stability
eng	and Growth Pact has this strange
eng	technical element that I have just
eng	mentioned, and then the Stability and
eng	Growth Pact will have teeth, or else it
eng	To this end, broadband coverage for the
eng	whole EU, including the outermost
eng	regions, will make a clear contribution
eng	to establishing the EU as an integrated
eng	area for information sharing,
eng	furthering its claim to be a
eng	cutting-edge digital economy. I
eng	therefore voted in favour of this
eng	Today's debate must also send a signal
eng	to the Commission that we must continue
eng	these popularly well-received
eng	programmes and opportunities in the
eng	next generation of education and youth
eng	programmes, too, and that they must be
eng	well funded in keeping with their
eng	Today, it is our common duty to cherish
eng	the memory of the hundreds of thousands
eng	of victims of the Soviet terror in the
eng	Baltic States, and to condemn in the
eng	strongest terms the totalitarian system
eng	and the crimes against humanity
eng	committed by its leaders.
eng	Too often, we have heard that spectrum
eng	planning and management is a technical
eng	issue that is the exclusive competence
eng	of the Member States.
eng	Turkey is a privileged partner of the
eng	EU and, on the outside, declares a
eng	definite interest in becoming a full
eng	member of our European group. I
eng	therefore firmly believe that you
eng	should make full use of the potential
eng	that is already available to you
eng	through your role in solving this
eng	thorny issue, in which the EU is
eng	Undeclared work deprives workers of
eng	social protection and deprives society
eng	of social security contributions.
eng	Unfortunately, I would say that the
eng	Europe 2020 strategy's ambitions are
eng	not visibly in harmony with the reality
eng	of budget restrictions, which have
eng	substantially cut funding for the main
eng	EU programmes in the area of education.
eng	I welcome the measures adopted by the
eng	Commission aimed at facilitating
eng	accessibility, transparency and
eng	comparability for the purposes of the
eng	recognition process within and among
eng	Unfortunately, the answer is no, but an
eng	increasing number of targeted
eng	programmes have been set up to improve
eng	the situation, including, for instance,
eng	the Danube strategy.
eng	Until now, it has seemed as if European
eng	contract law was something unnecessary
eng	and the general principle applies that
eng	if a provision is not necessary, then
eng	it should be omitted. I also believe
eng	that this report is a diversionary
eng	tactic, designed to draw attention away
eng	from the fact that something far more
eng	important, namely, EU-wide consumer
eng	protection, is still in need of
eng	Vocational education and training
eng	should create the conditions conducive
eng	to labour mobility, both during initial
eng	studies and as part of the lifelong
eng	We agree, in this vein, with the
eng	importance of more widespread
eng	information for investors and that
eng	market participants should only be
eng	authorised to invest in derivative
eng	financial instruments if they can prove
eng	to have an understanding and ability to
eng	assess the credit risk that the product
eng	We also believe, particularly in view
eng	of the current economic situation, that
eng	Parliament must review its expenditure
eng	and identify savings and ways to
eng	increase efficiency.
eng	We also need to promote the 25%
eng	reduction of administrative burden
eng	indicated in the SBA, which would
eng	contribute to the effectiveness of the
eng	SBA, would counteract any protectionist
eng	economic policies of Member States and
eng	stimulate business across the EU.
eng	Member States must swiftly implement
eng	the revised Late Payments Directive to
eng	effectively combat late payments and
eng	their negative impact, particularly on
eng	We are all concerned about the effects
eng	of climate change, environmental
eng	conservation and various issues
eng	relating to health and social
eng	well-being, which are inseparable from
eng	the rational use of transport. I agree
eng	that applying the 'polluter pays'
eng	principle, as well as trying to
eng	safeguard the public interest, results,
eng	and must result, in measures primarily
eng	aimed at reducing environmental
eng	pollution, noise pollution, damage to
eng	the countryside, and social costs that
eng	arise due to poor health, because these
eng	generate substantial economic costs
eng	that are borne by the public at large,
eng	and thus by Europe's citizens.
eng	We are being given by our interpreters
eng	the choice to vote 'no' after you have
eng	['Adopted']. I am not aware that the
eng	ability to speak Greek is required of
eng	We are faced, however, with ageing
eng	power plants and the practice of
eng	subcontracting. 80% of those who work
eng	in the nuclear industry are
eng	We are not just asking you for de
eng	minimis measures, Commissioner
eng	Damanaki: we ask that you look into
eng	opening up the European Fisheries Fund
eng	(EFF), and that you allow it to become
eng	more flexible, because of the inability
eng	- which you have acknowledged - of some
eng	Member States to contribute money and
eng	We are relying on the fact that
eng	progress will be made by other
eng	governments throughout the world during
eng	other global conferences and also after
eng	the elections in the US in the late
eng	autumn of this year.
eng	We are well aware that the long-term
eng	consequences of the catastrophe are
eng	still being experienced a full quarter
eng	We believe that the amendments adopted
eng	by the Committee on International Trade
eng	constitute a basis for finding such a
eng	We can also remember how well
eng	representation of the Union worked in
eng	the World Trade Organisation or in the
eng	Food and Agriculture Organisation.
eng	We cannot allow ourselves, the European
eng	Union, to be left behind in discord and
eng	We condemn the illegal exploitation of
eng	the mineral resources as well as the
eng	pillaging of precious wood,
eng	particularly rosewood.
eng	We do not believe that the own
eng	resources ceiling should be revised as
eng	it should be possible to finance EU
eng	policy within the current income
eng	We face unfair competition from an
eng	increasing number of foreign trucks
eng	taking up more than their fair share of
eng	cross-border haulage.
eng	We have already hosted a meeting of
eng	senior officials from around the world
eng	and from the big financial institutions
eng	to discuss what we might be able to
eng	contribute if asked, and will, but in
eng	consultation with our neighbourhood, we
eng	have to do more to support resources
eng	coming together more effectively.
eng	We have constantly criticised the
eng	Council for not progressing that agenda
eng	on the basis of the Commission's
eng	comprehensive proposal.
eng	We have liberty, but we do not have
eng	equality, and without equality there
eng	can be no fraternity.
eng	We have seen that we have convergent
eng	views on many subjects.
eng	We have to give the people of Europe
eng	peace of mind by ensuring that this
eng	subject is managed with the utmost
eng	transparency and above all, I stress,
eng	We in Parliament must, therefore, do
eng	everything we can to make the
eng	International Year of Chemistry a
eng	success because, as Marie Curie said,
eng	'now is the time to understand more, so
eng	that we may fear less'. Celebrating
eng	this year is a good time to take that
eng	We know with just as much certainty
eng	that it will be the European textile
eng	sector that mainly, if not exclusively,
eng	pays the price for this humanitarian
eng	We must approach this debate without
eng	extolling virtues - Baroness Ashton has
eng	rightly highlighted some positive
eng	elements; I would emphasise the good
eng	or, rather, the better provision of
eng	information between Parliament and the
eng	European External Action Service - yet
eng	also without concealing defects, and a
eng	voice as sensible as that of Giorgio
eng	Napolitano, our former fellow Member
eng	and President of the Italian Republic,
eng	has reminded us of this recently.
eng	We must ensure that through our young
eng	people, these identities are truly
eng	European and not allow the only
eng	educational model for our young people
eng	in the future to be the American one,
eng	although this has, of course, been an
eng	important point of reference until now.
eng	We must not confuse bureaucracy with
eng	transparency, because not every entry
eng	registered on a piece of paper or every
eng	approval recorded in a file contributes
eng	to making cohesion projects transparent.
eng	We must still make sure that we have
eng	the resources to implement this
eng	protection and information in all the
eng	Member States and to take action
eng	We need a democratic regime there and
eng	we at the European Union must do our
eng	best to establish that because, without
eng	that, progress cannot be made.
eng	We need the closest possible
eng	harmonisation between the Member States
eng	so that, ultimately, we have a
eng	harmonised, modern policy which is up
eng	to the job, as the times demand.
eng	We need to find viable solutions for
eng	the public finances of Athens, Dublin
eng	We need to rebuild the trust in, and
eng	value of, this tool and reserve it for
eng	only the most serious of crimes, whilst
eng	guaranteeing and maintaining the
eng	highest of standards in its use.
eng	We now have an opportunity to work with
eng	a broader perspective.
eng	We regret, however, that the
eng	registration of organisations has not
eng	been made compulsory, especially as it
eng	is a de facto obligation to register in
eng	order to receive a card to enter our
eng	We should encourage governments that as
eng	well as increasing budgetary means
eng	allocated each year to research, they
eng	should establish a percentage of their
eng	budget as a minimum threshold which
eng	must be used on research and
eng	development-type projects.
eng	We should therefore hold agencies
eng	accountable for the effectiveness of
eng	their work, but we should remember that
eng	the results of this work may now have
eng	an incredible impact on the labour
eng	market, by linking all vocational
eng	training to jobs and professions which
eng	are already showing signs of being in
eng	short supply in the future European
eng	We therefore chose to support paragraph
eng	5, which calls for greater transparency
eng	with regard to Members' expenditure
eng	We think this is very important because
eng	one of the things I consider essential
eng	in relation to innovation is that we
eng	should have a 'living document': in
eng	other words, that we will have the
eng	opportunity on a regular basis - in
eng	Parliament, internationally at the
eng	Innovation Convention, and also at
eng	Heads of State or Government level - to
eng	monitor progress and to insist, where
eng	the progress is slow, on speeding it
eng	up. That is very important if this
eng	initiative is going to be successful,
eng	to create the kind of jobs we want and
eng	to deliver what we expect it to deliver
eng	at the end of the day.
eng	We want to have genuine own resources,
eng	as described in the Treaty.
eng	We will continue to fight for a better
eng	We wish to say specifically to Mrs
eng	Liotard that, as regards the internal
eng	Council document you quoted, the Member
eng	States were aware of it and naturally
eng	the Council was aware of it, and even
eng	discussed it. It helped in establishing
eng	We, in the Group of the European
eng	People's Party (Christian Democrats)
eng	have the courage to push through such a
eng	What action does the Commission plan to
eng	take in order to include the subject of
eng	gender equality in European climate
eng	What is advancing faster than
eng	anticipated last year is the creation
eng	of the European Emergency Response
eng	Centre. I can assure you it would make
eng	a big difference because it would allow
eng	us to accelerate work on scenario
eng	planning - what kinds of disasters we
eng	have to be prepared for, and also on
eng	modelisation of the committed Member
eng	What is the situation when it comes to
eng	the judicial reform and anti-corruption
eng	measures that are still needed? Those
eng	citizens of Romania and Bulgaria who
eng	travel to Schengen countries with good
eng	intentions will, in any case - and I am
eng	convinced of this - understand that the
eng	inconvenience of border controls is
eng	outweighed by the necessity of
eng	protecting all other Europeans against
eng	organised crime and mass illegal
eng	What underlies these reasons? Objective
eng	fears or prejudice, situational
eng	prudence or disappointment? I hope that
eng	the interior and justice ministers will
eng	be at least just as frank with each
eng	other as we have been during the
eng	process of drafting the Coelho report.
eng	Whatever people in this Chamber, or
eng	anyone else in the European Union,
eng	think about our common foreign and
eng	security policy, this is the most
eng	outstanding objective endorsement of
eng	the ambition that you and we have for
eng	the Lisbon Treaty, a foreign policy
eng	that has real trust and respect from
eng	our foreign partners.
eng	When it comes to food, we need
eng	transparency and clear traceability
eng	with regard to manufacture.
eng	When there is talk of increases, then
eng	discussions must lead to a
eng	consideration of the correct use of
eng	Where necessary, we can make
eng	recommendations in this area, if we
eng	need to be more specific later in the
eng	While acknowledging the due
eng	responsibility shown by the Commission
eng	in the allocations planned for 2012, in
eng	my capacity as rapporteur on the budget
eng	for the Committee on Women's Rights and
eng	Gender Equality, I regret the minimal
eng	increase in programmes such as
eng	PROGRESS, which is responsible for
eng	implementing important initiatives for
eng	young people, for the fight against
eng	poverty and for gender equality, and
eng	the Daphne Programme, which is
eng	responsible for policies for combating
eng	violence against women.
eng	While the intention of the rapporteur
eng	and her political group was to make it
eng	stand out from the other five, the fact
eng	is that it is very revealing of the
eng	contradictions that exist in this
eng	Whilst there is now nothing to prevent
eng	us from enlarging the Schengen area, it
eng	is worth noting the recommendations
eng	that have been made to these two
eng	countries. I hope these recommendations
eng	will be strictly monitored, especially
eng	as regards the borders between
eng	Bulgaria, Greece and Turkey, because as
eng	you know, mutual trust between the
eng	Schengen States relies on countries
eng	adhering fully to their reciprocal
eng	Why, then, should he be trusted this
eng	time? That is why the EU and the
eng	international community must intervene
eng	in the situation, and this illegal
eng	government headed by Rajoelina should
eng	be brought to an end.
eng	With each enlargement of the Schengen
eng	area, we are expanding the area of
eng	​​freedom, security and justice and
eng	I am confident that, as in the past,
eng	time will show possibilities for
eng	economic and other development.
eng	With regard to the debt issue, work is
eng	under way as part of the Heavily
eng	Indebted Poor Countries Initiative.
eng	With the adoption of today's
eng	resolution, the European Parliament has
eng	once again called for protection for
eng	small and medium-sized enterprises.
eng	With this resolution, the European
eng	Parliament intends to express its
eng	support for the initiative of the
eng	International Labour Organisation (ILO)
eng	to adopt a convention supplemented by a
eng	recommendation on decent work for
eng	Within this framework, I welcome the
eng	rapporteur's proposal for a special
eng	plan to be prepared as soon as Bulgaria
eng	joins the Schengen area, containing
eng	actions in this direction and a joint
eng	approach between Greece, Turkey and
eng	Bulgaria, so that it is in a position
eng	to cope with what may be a large
eng	increase in immigration flows.
eng	Worse still, in order to escape
eng	'blackmail' by Member States, which are
eng	naturally reluctant to increase their
eng	already very high contributions,
eng	Parliament once more raises the issue
eng	of own resources for the EU, or, in
eng	short, a European tax. 'Do as I say and
eng	not as I do' could be the new European
eng	Yesterday, like today, there is only
eng	one true intention: to obtain trade
eng	concessions that benefit, above all,
eng	the big European importers.
eng	YoM looks to improve higher level
eng	education within Europe and to improve
eng	student and worker mobility through
eng	existing European programmes.
eng	You have already had the chance to
eng	state your views, Mr Gollnisch.
eng	You said, 'This is not a permanent
eng	solution, we will always have access to
eng	the waste'. I approve.
eng	Youth on the Move seeks to increase
eng	opportunities for educational mobility
eng	for all Europe's young people by 2020,
eng	enabling them to progress more smoothly
eng	from education to the world of work, by
eng	giving them an education that prepares
eng	them for the demands of the market.
eng	first and foremost, a strong, fair and
eng	the report by Mrs Schaake, on behalf of
eng	the Committee on Culture and Education,
eng	on the cultural dimensions of the EU's
eng	In the beginning, God  created the
eng	heavens and the earth.
eng	God saw everything that he had made,
eng	and, behold, it was very good. There
eng	was evening and there was morning, a
eng	for God knows that in the day you eat
eng	it, your eyes will be opened, and you
eng	will be like God, knowing good and
eng	You will eat from it with much labour
eng	all the days of your life.
eng	To Enoch was born Irad. Irad became the
eng	father of Mehujael. Mehujael became the
eng	father of Methushael. Methushael became
eng	the father of Lamech.
eng	All of the days of Mahalalel were eight
eng	hundred and ninety-five years, then he
eng	This is how you shall make it. The
eng	length of the ship shall be three
eng	hundred cubits,  its width fifty
eng	cubits, and its height thirty cubits.
eng	Every living thing was destroyed that
eng	was on the surface of the ground,
eng	including man, livestock, creeping
eng	things, and birds of the sky. They were
eng	destroyed from the earth. Only Noah was
eng	left, and those who were with him in
eng	Be fruitful and multiply. Increase
eng	abundantly in the earth, and multiply
eng	The sons of Japheth were: Gomer, Magog,
eng	Madai, Javan, Tubal, Meshech, and Tiras.
eng	These are the families of the sons of
eng	Noah, by their generations, according
eng	to their nations. The nations divided
eng	from these in the earth after the flood.
eng	Sarai was barren. She had no child.
eng	There was strife between the herdsmen
eng	of Abram’s livestock and the herdsmen
eng	of Lot’s livestock. The Canaanites
eng	and the Perizzites lived in the land at
eng	He blessed him, and said, “Blessed be
eng	Abram of God Most High, possessor of
eng	Sarai, Abram’s wife, took Hagar the
eng	Egyptian, her servant, after Abram had
eng	lived ten years in the land of Canaan,
eng	and gave her to Abram her husband to be
eng	I will bless her, and moreover I will
eng	give you a son by her. Yes, I will
eng	bless her, and she will be a mother of
eng	nations. Kings of peoples will come
eng	He said, “No, but you did laugh.”
eng	Lot went out to them to the door, and
eng	shut the door after him.
eng	They made their father drink wine that
eng	night also. The younger went and lay
eng	with him. He didn’t know when she lay
eng	down, nor when she got up.
eng	Sarah saw the son of Hagar the
eng	Egyptian, whom she had borne to
eng	Abraham rose early in the morning, and
eng	saddled his donkey, and took two of his
eng	young men with him, and Isaac his son.
eng	He split the wood for the burnt
eng	offering, and rose up, and went to the
eng	place of which God had told him.
eng	“Hear us, my lord. You are a prince
eng	of God amongst us. Bury your dead in
eng	the best of our tombs. None of us will
eng	withhold from you his tomb. Bury your
eng	The young lady was very beautiful to
eng	look at, a virgin. No man had known
eng	her. She went down to the spring,
eng	filled her pitcher, and came up.
eng	Before I had finished speaking in my
eng	heart, behold, Rebekah came out with
eng	her pitcher on her shoulder. She went
eng	down to the spring, and drew. I said to
eng	her, ‘Please let me drink.’
eng	Abraham gave all that he had to Isaac,
eng	Jacob said, “First, sell me your
eng	He built an altar there, and called on
eng	the LORD’s name, and pitched his tent
eng	there. There Isaac’s servants dug a
eng	He said, “Here I am. Who are you, my
eng	He said, “Your brother came with
eng	deceit, and has taken away your
eng	Behold, I am with you, and will keep
eng	you, wherever you go, and will bring
eng	you again into this land. For I will
eng	not leave you, until I have done that
eng	which I have spoken of to you.”
eng	Jacob served seven years for Rachel.
eng	They seemed to him but a few days, for
eng	the love he had for her.
eng	She said to her, “Is it a small
eng	matter that you have taken away my
eng	husband? Would you take away my son’s
eng	but when the flock were feeble, he
eng	didn’t put them in. So the feebler
eng	were Laban’s, and the stronger
eng	and didn’t allow me to kiss my sons
eng	and my daughters? Now have you done
eng	Jacob sent messengers in front of him
eng	to Esau, his brother, to the land of
eng	Seir, the field of Edom.
eng	Jacob called the name of the place
eng	Peniel : for, he said, “I have seen
eng	God face to face, and my life is
eng	Now Jacob heard that he had defiled
eng	Dinah, his daughter; and his sons were
eng	with his livestock in the field. Jacob
eng	held his peace until they came.
eng	They gave to Jacob all the foreign gods
eng	which were in their hands, and the
eng	rings which were in their ears; and
eng	Jacob hid them under the oak which was
eng	Adah bore to Esau Eliphaz. Basemath
eng	Jobab died, and Husham of the land of
eng	the Temanites reigned in his place.
eng	Come now therefore, and let’s kill
eng	him, and cast him into one of the pits,
eng	and we will say, ‘An evil animal has
eng	devoured him.’ We will see what will
eng	become of his dreams.”
eng	She took off of her the garments of her
eng	widowhood, and covered herself with her
eng	veil, and wrapped herself, and sat in
eng	the gate of Enaim, which is by the way
eng	to Timnah; for she saw that Shelah was
eng	grown up, and she wasn’t given to him
eng	Joseph was well-built and handsome.
eng	Pharaoh’s cup was in my hand; and I
eng	took the grapes, and pressed them into
eng	Pharaoh’s cup, and I gave the cup
eng	into Pharaoh’s hand.”
eng	and behold, there came up out of the
eng	river seven cattle, fat and sleek. They
eng	fed in the marsh grass,
eng	He gathered up all the food of the
eng	seven years which were in the land of
eng	Egypt, and laid up the food in the
eng	cities: the food of the field, which
eng	was around every city, he laid up in
eng	Bring your youngest brother to me; so
eng	will your words be verified, and you
eng	Their father, Israel, said to them,
eng	“If it must be so, then do this. Take
eng	from the choice fruits of the land in
eng	your bags, and carry down a present for
eng	the man, a little balm, a little honey,
eng	spices and myrrh, nuts, and almonds;
eng	They said to him, “Why does my lord
eng	speak such words as these? Far be it
eng	from your servants that they should do
eng	Joseph said to his brothers, “I am
eng	Joseph! Does my father still live?”
eng	He said, “Here I am.”
eng	These men are shepherds, for they have
eng	been keepers of livestock, and they
eng	have brought their flocks, and their
eng	herds, and all that they have.’
eng	Israel lived in the land of Egypt, in
eng	the land of Goshen; and they got
eng	themselves possessions therein, and
eng	were fruitful, and multiplied
eng	Assemble yourselves, and hear, you sons
eng	his donkey’s colt to the choice vine;
eng	The archers have severely grieved him,
eng	Joseph went up to bury his father; and
eng	with him went up all the servants of
eng	Pharaoh, the elders of his house, all
eng	the elders of the land of Egypt,
eng	Therefore they set taskmasters over
eng	them to afflict them with their
eng	burdens. They built storage cities for
eng	Pharaoh: Pithom and Raamses.
eng	Now the priest of Midian had seven
eng	daughters. They came and drew water,
eng	and filled the troughs to water their
eng	I know that the king of Egypt won’t
eng	give you permission to go, no, not by a
eng	The LORD said to Moses, “When you go
eng	back into Egypt, see that you do before
eng	Pharaoh all the wonders which I have
eng	put in your hand, but I will harden his
eng	heart and he will not let the people go.
eng	The officers of the children of Israel
eng	saw that they were in trouble, when it
eng	was said, “You shall not diminish
eng	anything from your daily quota of
eng	These are that Aaron and Moses, to whom
eng	the LORD said, “Bring out the
eng	children of Israel from the land of
eng	Egypt according to their armies.”
eng	The LORD spoke to Moses, Go in to
eng	Pharaoh, and tell him, “This is what
eng	the LORD says, ‘Let my people go,
eng	that they may serve me.
eng	Moses went out from Pharaoh, and prayed
eng	Pray to the LORD; for there has been
eng	enough of mighty thunderings and hail.
eng	I will let you go, and you shall stay
eng	They didn’t see one another, and
eng	nobody rose from his place for three
eng	days; but all the children of Israel
eng	had light in their dwellings.
eng	This day shall be to you for a
eng	memorial, and you shall keep it a feast
eng	to the LORD: throughout your
eng	generations you shall keep it a feast
eng	by an ordinance forever.
eng	The LORD said to Moses and Aaron,
eng	“This is the ordinance of the
eng	Passover. No foreigner shall eat of it,
eng	the pillar of cloud by day, and the
eng	pillar of fire by night, didn’t
eng	depart from before the people.
eng	Thus the LORD saved Israel that day out
eng	of the hand of the Egyptians; and
eng	Israel saw the Egyptians dead on the
eng	fearful in praises, doing wonders?
eng	They took their journey from Elim, and
eng	all the congregation of the children of
eng	Israel came to the wilderness of Sin,
eng	which is between Elim and Sinai, on the
eng	fifteenth day of the second month after
eng	their departing out of the land of
eng	The house of Israel called its name
eng	Manna,  and it was like coriander seed,
eng	white; and its taste was like wafers
eng	He said to Moses, “I, your
eng	father-in-law Jethro, have come to you
eng	with your wife, and her two sons with
eng	Moses reported the words of the people
eng	“You shall not murder.
eng	“Anyone who curses his father or his
eng	mother shall surely be put to death.
eng	the oath of the LORD shall be between
eng	them both, whether he hasn’t put his
eng	hand to his neighbour’s goods; and
eng	its owner shall accept it, and he shall
eng	not make restitution.
eng	“You shall not oppress an alien, for
eng	you know the heart of an alien, since
eng	you were aliens in the land of Egypt.
eng	He sent young men of the children of
eng	Israel, who offered burnt offerings and
eng	sacrificed peace offerings of cattle to
eng	You shall put the testimony which I
eng	shall give you into the ark.
eng	You shall make fifty clasps of gold,
eng	and couple the curtains to one another
eng	with the clasps: and the tabernacle
eng	“You shall make a screen for the door
eng	of the Tent, of blue, and purple, and
eng	scarlet, and fine twined linen, the
eng	work of the embroiderer.
eng	The skilfully woven band, which is on
eng	it, that is on him, shall be like its
eng	work and of the same piece; of gold, of
eng	blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine
eng	You shall put it on a lace of blue, and
eng	it shall be on the sash; on the front
eng	of the sash it shall be.
eng	You shall put all of this in Aaron’s
eng	hands, and in his sons’ hands, and
eng	shall wave them for a wave offering
eng	When Aaron lights the lamps at evening,
eng	he shall burn it, a perpetual incense
eng	before the LORD throughout your
eng	Whoever shall make any like that, to
eng	smell of it, he shall be cut off from
eng	Why should the Egyptians speak, saying,
eng	‘He brought them out for evil, to
eng	kill them in the mountains, and to
eng	consume them from the surface of the
eng	earth?’ Turn from your fierce wrath,
eng	and repent of this evil against your
eng	The children of Israel stripped
eng	themselves of their jewellery from
eng	but you shall break down their altars,
eng	and dash in pieces their pillars, and
eng	you shall cut down their Asherah poles;
eng	rams’ skins dyed red, sea cow hides,
eng	Moses called Bezalel and Oholiab, and
eng	every wise-hearted man, in whose heart
eng	the LORD had put wisdom, even everyone
eng	whose heart stirred him up to come to
eng	and five bars for the boards of the
eng	other side of the tabernacle, and five
eng	bars for the boards of the tabernacle
eng	for the hinder part westward.
eng	He made it of a talent  of pure gold,
eng	with all its vessels.
eng	The silver of those who were counted of
eng	the congregation was one hundred
eng	The opening of the robe in the middle
eng	of it was like the opening of a coat of
eng	mail, with a binding around its
eng	opening, that it should not be torn.
eng	You shall anoint the altar of burnt
eng	offering, with all its vessels, and
eng	sanctify the altar: and the altar will
eng	“Speak to the children of Israel, and
eng	tell them, ‘When anyone of you offers
eng	an offering to the LORD, you shall
eng	offer your offering of the livestock,
eng	from the herd and from the flock.
eng	You shall put oil on it, and lay
eng	frankincense on it: it is a meal
eng	he shall carry the whole bull outside
eng	of the camp to a clean place, where the
eng	ashes are poured out, and burn it on
eng	wood with fire. Where the ashes are
eng	poured out, it shall be burnt.
eng	“‘If he can’t afford a lamb, then
eng	he shall bring his trespass offering
eng	for that in which he has sinned, two
eng	turtledoves, or two young pigeons, to
eng	the LORD; one for a sin offering, and
eng	the other for a burnt offering.
eng	Every male amongst the children of
eng	Aaron shall eat of it, as their portion
eng	forever throughout your generations,
eng	from the offerings of the LORD made by
eng	fire. Whoever touches them shall be
eng	If any of the meat of the sacrifice of
eng	his peace offerings is eaten on the
eng	third day, it will not be accepted, and
eng	it shall not be credited to him who
eng	offers it. It will be an abomination,
eng	and the soul who eats any of it will
eng	Moses took the anointing oil, and
eng	anointed the tabernacle and all that
eng	was in it, and sanctified them.
eng	and a bull and a ram for peace
eng	offerings, to sacrifice before the
eng	LORD; and a meal offering mixed with
eng	oil: for today the LORD appears to
eng	You shall not go out from the door of
eng	the Tent of Meeting, lest you die; for
eng	the anointing oil of the LORD is on
eng	you.” They did according to the word
eng	the little owl, the cormorant, the
eng	to make a distinction between the
eng	unclean and the clean, and between the
eng	living thing that may be eaten and the
eng	living thing that may not be
eng	But if the priest examines it, and
eng	behold, there are no white hairs in it,
eng	and it isn’t deeper than the skin,
eng	but is dim, then the priest shall
eng	isolate him seven days.
eng	He shall examine the plague on the
eng	seventh day. If the plague has spread
eng	in the garment, either in the warp, or
eng	in the woof, or in the skin, whatever
eng	use the skin is used for, the plague is
eng	a destructive mildew. It is unclean.
eng	and two turtledoves, or two young
eng	pigeons, such as he is able to afford;
eng	and the one shall be a sin offering,
eng	and the other a burnt offering.
eng	He shall cleanse the house with the
eng	blood of the bird, and with the running
eng	water, with the living bird, with the
eng	cedar wood, with the hyssop, and with
eng	“‘If any man lies with her, and her
eng	monthly flow is on him, he shall be
eng	unclean seven days; and every bed
eng	whereon he lies shall be unclean.
eng	Aaron shall lay both his hands on the
eng	head of the live goat, and confess over
eng	him all the iniquities of the children
eng	of Israel, and all their
eng	transgressions, even all their sins;
eng	and he shall put them on the head of
eng	the goat, and shall send him away into
eng	the wilderness by the hand of a man who
eng	But if he doesn’t wash them, or bathe
eng	his flesh, then he shall bear his
eng	Therefore you shall keep my
eng	requirements, that you do not practise
eng	any of these abominable customs, which
eng	were practised before you, and that you
eng	do not defile yourselves with them. I
eng	am the LORD your God.’”
eng	“‘When you come into the land, and
eng	have planted all kinds of trees for
eng	food, then you shall count their fruit
eng	as forbidden.  Three years they shall
eng	be forbidden to you. It shall not be
eng	“‘If a woman approaches any animal,
eng	and lies down with it, you shall kill
eng	the woman and the animal. They shall
eng	surely be put to death. Their blood
eng	or a man who has an injured foot, or an
eng	You must not offer the bread of your
eng	God from the hand of a foreigner as any
eng	of these; because their corruption is
eng	in them. There is a defect in them.
eng	They shall not be accepted for
eng	“‘When you reap the harvest of your
eng	land, you must not wholly reap into the
eng	corners of your field, and you must not
eng	gather the gleanings of your harvest.
eng	You must leave them for the poor, and
eng	for the foreigner. I am the LORD your
eng	Every Sabbath day he shall set it in
eng	order before the LORD continually. It
eng	is on the behalf of the children of
eng	Israel an everlasting covenant.
eng	According to the number of years after
eng	the Jubilee you shall buy from your
eng	neighbour. According to the number of
eng	years of the crops he shall sell to you.
eng	Moreover of the children of the aliens
eng	who live amongst you, of them you may
eng	buy, and of their families who are with
eng	you, which they have conceived in your
eng	land; and they will be your property.
eng	Your strength will be spent in vain;
eng	for your land won’t yield its
eng	increase, neither will the trees of the
eng	land yield their fruit.
eng	If she is a female, then your valuation
eng	shall be thirty shekels.
eng	These are the commandments which the
eng	LORD commanded Moses for the children
eng	of Israel on Mount Sinai.
eng	those who were counted of them, of the
eng	tribe of Judah, were seventy-four
eng	thousand and six hundred.
eng	Those who encamp on the east side
eng	towards the sunrise shall be of the
eng	standard of the camp of Judah,
eng	according to their divisions: and the
eng	prince of the children of Judah shall
eng	be Nahshon the son of Amminadab.
eng	But the Levites were not counted
eng	amongst the children of Israel; as the
eng	LORD commanded Moses.
eng	According to the number of all the
eng	males, from a month old and upward,
eng	there were eight thousand and six
eng	hundred, keeping the requirements of
eng	“On the table of show bread they
eng	shall spread a blue cloth, and put on
eng	it the dishes, the spoons, the bowls,
eng	and the cups with which to pour out;
eng	and the continual bread shall be on it.
eng	These are those who were counted of the
eng	families of the Kohathites, all who
eng	served in the Tent of Meeting, whom
eng	Moses and Aaron counted according to
eng	the commandment of the LORD by Moses.
eng	The priest shall set the woman before
eng	the LORD, and let the hair of the
eng	woman’s head go loose, and put the
eng	meal offering of memorial in her hands,
eng	which is the meal offering of jealousy.
eng	The priest shall have in his hand the
eng	water of bitterness that brings a curse.
eng	He shall offer the ram for a sacrifice
eng	of peace offerings to the LORD, with
eng	the basket of unleavened bread. The
eng	priest shall offer also its meal
eng	offering, and its drink offering.
eng	The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
eng	They kept the Passover in the first
eng	month, on the fourteenth day of the
eng	month, at evening, in the wilderness of
eng	Sinai. According to all that the LORD
eng	commanded Moses, so the children of
eng	The children of Israel went forward
eng	according to their journeys out of the
eng	wilderness of Sinai; and the cloud
eng	stayed in the wilderness of Paran.
eng	We remember the fish, which we ate in
eng	Egypt for nothing; the cucumbers, and
eng	the melons, and the leeks, and the
eng	onions, and the garlic;
eng	From Kibroth Hattaavah the people
eng	travelled to Hazeroth; and they stayed
eng	Of the tribe of Dan, Ammiel the son of
eng	Only don’t rebel against the LORD,
eng	neither fear the people of the land;
eng	for they are bread for us. Their
eng	defence is removed from over them, and
eng	the LORD is with us. Don’t fear
eng	But Joshua the son of Nun, and Caleb
eng	the son of Jephunneh, remained alive of
eng	those men who went to spy out the land.
eng	even all that the LORD has commanded
eng	you by Moses, from the day that the
eng	LORD gave commandment, and onward
eng	throughout your generations;
eng	Moses sent to call Dathan and Abiram,
eng	the sons of Eliab; and they said, “We
eng	to be a memorial to the children of
eng	Israel, to the end that no stranger,
eng	who isn’t of the offspring  of Aaron,
eng	would come near to burn incense before
eng	the LORD, that he not be as Korah, and
eng	as his company; as the LORD spoke to
eng	You and your sons with you shall keep
eng	your priesthood for everything of the
eng	altar, and for that within the veil.
eng	You shall serve. I give you the service
eng	of the priesthood as a gift. The
eng	stranger who comes near shall be put to
eng	One shall burn the heifer in his sight;
eng	her skin, and her meat, and her blood,
eng	with her dung, shall he burn.
eng	These are the waters of Meribah;
eng	because the children of Israel strove
eng	with the LORD, and he was sanctified in
eng	From there they travelled, and encamped
eng	on the other side of the Arnon, which
eng	is in the wilderness, that comes out of
eng	the border of the Amorites: for the
eng	Arnon is the border of Moab, between
eng	Moab and the Amorites.
eng	We have shot at them.
eng	Balaam rose up in the morning, and
eng	saddled his donkey, and went with the
eng	He took up his parable, and said,
eng	He has blessed, and I can’t reverse
eng	and your tents, Israel!
eng	I see him, but not now.
eng	Behold, one of the children of Israel
eng	came and brought to his brothers a
eng	Midianite woman in the sight of Moses,
eng	and in the sight of all the
eng	congregation of the children of Israel,
eng	while they were weeping at the door of
eng	the Tent of Meeting.
eng	of Arod, the family of the Arodites; of
eng	Areli, the family of the Arelites.
eng	These are the families of the sons of
eng	Asher according to those who were
eng	counted of them, fifty-three thousand
eng	The LORD said to Moses, “Go up into
eng	this mountain of Abarim, and see the
eng	land which I have given to the children
eng	but you shall offer an offering made by
eng	fire, a burnt offering to the LORD: two
eng	young bulls, and one ram, and seven
eng	male lambs a year old; they shall be to
eng	and their meal offering and their drink
eng	offerings for the bulls, for the rams,
eng	and for the lambs, according to their
eng	number, after the ordinance;
eng	But if her husband forbids her in the
eng	day that he hears it, then he shall
eng	make void her vow which is on her, and
eng	the rash utterance of her lips, with
eng	which she has bound her soul. the LORD
eng	however the gold, and the silver, the
eng	brass, the iron, the tin, and the lead,
eng	All the gold of the wave offering that
eng	they offered up to the LORD, of the
eng	captains of thousands, and of the
eng	captains of hundreds, was sixteen
eng	thousand and seven hundred and fifty
eng	So Moses commanded concerning them to
eng	Eleazar the priest, and to Joshua the
eng	son of Nun, and to the heads of the
eng	fathers’ households of the tribes of
eng	the children of Israel.
eng	They travelled from the wilderness of
eng	Sinai, and encamped in Kibroth
eng	They travelled from Dibon Gad, and
eng	encamped in Almon Diblathaim.
eng	Of the tribe of the children of Simeon,
eng	Shemuel the son of Ammihud.
eng	or in hostility struck him with his
eng	hand, so that he died, he who struck
eng	him shall surely be put to death. He is
eng	a murderer. The avenger of blood shall
eng	put the murderer to death, when he
eng	after he had struck Sihon the king of
eng	the Amorites, who lived in Heshbon, and
eng	Og the king of Bashan, who lived in
eng	Ashtaroth, at Edrei.
eng	The LORD heard the voice of your words,
eng	and was angry, and swore, saying,
eng	“You are to pass over Ar, the border
eng	(For only Og king of Bashan remained of
eng	the remnant of the Rephaim. Behold, his
eng	bedstead was a bedstead of iron.
eng	Isn’t it in Rabbah of the children of
eng	Ammon? Nine cubits  was its length, and
eng	four cubits its width, after the cubit
eng	The LORD spoke to you out of the middle
eng	of the fire: you heard the voice of
eng	words, but you saw no form; you only
eng	that the man slayer might flee there,
eng	who kills his neighbour unawares, and
eng	didn’t hate him in time past; and
eng	that fleeing to one of these cities he
eng	When you heard the voice out of the
eng	middle of the darkness, while the
eng	mountain was burning with fire, you
eng	came near to me, even all the heads of
eng	your tribes, and your elders;
eng	When your son asks you in time to come,
eng	saying, “What do the testimonies, the
eng	statutes, and the ordinances, which the
eng	LORD our God has commanded you mean?”
eng	You shall burn the engraved images of
eng	their gods with fire. You shall not
eng	covet the silver or the gold that is on
eng	them, nor take it for yourself, lest
eng	you be snared in it; for it is an
eng	abomination to the LORD your God.
eng	When I had gone up onto the mountain to
eng	receive the stone tablets, even the
eng	tablets of the covenant which the LORD
eng	made with you, then I stayed on the
eng	mountain forty days and forty nights. I
eng	neither ate bread nor drank water.
eng	I stayed on the mountain, as at the
eng	first time, forty days and forty
eng	nights: and the LORD listened to me
eng	that time also; the LORD would not
eng	Therefore you shall lay up these my
eng	words in your heart and in your soul.
eng	You shall bind them for a sign on your
eng	hand, and they shall be for frontlets
eng	Only you shall not eat the blood. You
eng	shall pour it out on the earth like
eng	then you shall enquire, and make
eng	search, and ask diligently. Behold, if
eng	it is true, and the thing certain, that
eng	such abomination was done amongst you,
eng	You shall trade the money for whatever
eng	your soul desires, for cattle, or for
eng	sheep, or for wine, or for strong
eng	drink, or for whatever your soul asks
eng	of you; and you shall eat there before
eng	the LORD your God, and you shall
eng	rejoice, you and your household.
eng	No yeast shall be seen with you in all
eng	your borders seven days; neither shall
eng	any of the meat, which you sacrifice
eng	the first day at evening, remain all
eng	night until the morning.
eng	The man who does presumptuously, in not
eng	listening to the priest who stands to
eng	minister there before the LORD your
eng	God, or to the judge, even that man
eng	shall die. You shall put away the evil
eng	When a prophet speaks in the LORD’s
eng	name, if the thing doesn’t follow,
eng	nor happen, that is the thing which the
eng	LORD has not spoken. The prophet has
eng	spoken it presumptuously. You shall not
eng	It shall be, when the officers have
eng	finished speaking to the people, that
eng	they shall appoint captains of armies
eng	at the head of the people.
eng	then his father and his mother shall
eng	take hold of him and bring him out to
eng	the elders of his city, and to the gate
eng	but to the lady you shall do nothing.
eng	There is in the lady no sin worthy of
eng	death; for as when a man rises against
eng	his neighbour, and kills him, even so
eng	When a man takes a wife and marries
eng	her, then it shall be, if she finds no
eng	favour in his eyes, because he has
eng	found some unseemly thing in her, that
eng	he shall write her a bill of divorce,
eng	and put it in her hand, and send her
eng	then his brother’s wife shall come to
eng	him in the presence of the elders, and
eng	loose his shoe from off his foot, and
eng	spit in his face. She shall answer and
eng	say, “So shall it be done to the man
eng	who does not build up his brother’s
eng	Moses and the elders of Israel
eng	commanded the people, saying, “Keep
eng	all the commandment which I command you
eng	‘Cursed is he who lies with his
eng	Your sky that is over your head will be
eng	brass, and the earth that is under you
eng	You will eat the fruit of your own
eng	body, the flesh of your sons and of
eng	your daughters, whom the LORD your God
eng	has given you, in the siege and in the
eng	distress with which your enemies will
eng	Neither do I make this covenant and
eng	this oath with you only,
eng	Behold, I have set before you today
eng	life and prosperity, and death and evil.
eng	When Moses had finished writing the
eng	words of this law in a book, until they
eng	When the Most High gave to the nations
eng	You have become sleek.
eng	I will send the teeth of animals on
eng	Vengeance is mine, and recompense,
eng	He will take vengeance on his
eng	“Hear, LORD, the voice of Judah.
eng	for the precious things that the moon
eng	that leaps out of Bashan.”
eng	and the south,  and the Plain of the
eng	valley of Jericho the city of palm
eng	Jericho’s king sent to Rahab, saying,
eng	“Bring out the men who have come to
eng	you, who have entered into your house;
eng	for they have come to spy out all the
eng	Joshua said to the children of Israel,
eng	“Come here, and hear the words of the
eng	Then you shall let your children know,
eng	saying, ‘Israel came over this Jordan
eng	Joshua rose early in the morning, and
eng	the priests took up the LORD’s ark.
eng	“‘In the morning therefore you
eng	shall be brought near by your tribes.
eng	It shall be that the tribe which the
eng	LORD selects shall come near by
eng	families. The family which the LORD
eng	selects shall come near by households.
eng	The household which the LORD selects
eng	shall come near man by man.
eng	The LORD said to Joshua, “Stretch out
eng	the javelin that is in your hand
eng	towards Ai, for I will give it into
eng	Our elders and all the inhabitants of
eng	our country spoke to us, saying,
eng	‘Take supplies in your hand for the
eng	journey, and go to meet them. Tell
eng	them, “We are your servants. Now make
eng	a covenant with us.”’
eng	There was no day like that before it or
eng	after it, that the LORD listened to the
eng	voice of a man; for the LORD fought for
eng	Joshua returned, and all Israel with
eng	him, to the camp to Gilgal.
eng	These are the kings of the land whom
eng	Joshua and the children of Israel
eng	struck beyond the Jordan westward, from
eng	Baal Gad in the valley of Lebanon even
eng	to Mount Halak, that goes up to Seir.
eng	Joshua gave it to the tribes of Israel
eng	for a possession according to their
eng	the king of Dor in the height of Dor,
eng	and in the valley, Beth Haram, Beth
eng	Nimrah, Succoth, and Zaphon, the rest
eng	of the kingdom of Sihon king of
eng	Heshbon, the Jordan’s bank, to the
eng	uttermost part of the sea of Chinnereth
eng	beyond the Jordan eastward.
eng	The border extended from the top of the
eng	mountain to the spring of the waters of
eng	Nephtoah, and went out to the cities of
eng	Mount Ephron; and the border extended
eng	to Baalah (also called Kiriath Jearim);
eng	Dilean, Mizpah, Joktheel,
eng	This was the border of the children of
eng	Ephraim according to their families.
eng	The border of their inheritance
eng	eastward was Ataroth Addar, to Beth
eng	However, the Levites have no portion
eng	amongst you; for the priesthood of the
eng	LORD is their inheritance. Gad, Reuben,
eng	and the half-tribe of Manasseh have
eng	received their inheritance east of the
eng	Jordan, which Moses the servant of the
eng	Out of the part of the children of
eng	Judah was the inheritance of the
eng	children of Simeon; for the portion of
eng	the children of Judah was too much for
eng	them. Therefore the children of Simeon
eng	had inheritance in the middle of their
eng	This is the inheritance of the tribe of
eng	the children of Naphtali according to
eng	their families, the cities with their
eng	They gave out of the tribe of the
eng	children of Judah, and out of the tribe
eng	of the children of Simeon, these cities
eng	which are mentioned by name:
eng	Heshbon with its suburbs, Jazer with
eng	its suburbs: four cities in all.
eng	“If we have not out of concern done
eng	this, and for a reason, saying, ‘In
eng	time to come your children might speak
eng	to our children, saying, “What have
eng	you to do with the LORD, the God of
eng	I gave to Isaac Jacob and Esau: and I
eng	gave to Esau Mount Seir, to possess it.
eng	Jacob and his children went down into
eng	Eleazar the son of Aaron died. They
eng	buried him in the hill of Phinehas his
eng	son, which was given him in the hill
eng	Ephraim didn’t drive out the
eng	Canaanites who lived in Gezer, but the
eng	Canaanites lived in Gezer amongst them.
eng	So the LORD left those nations, without
eng	driving them out hastily. He didn’t
eng	deliver them into Joshua’s hand.
eng	They struck at that time about ten
eng	thousand men of Moab, every strong man,
eng	and every man of valour. No man escaped.
eng	because the people offered themselves
eng	“Then the LORD’s people went down
eng	The river Kishon swept them away,
eng	A lady, two ladies to every man;
eng	Then the LORD’s angel stretched out
eng	the end of the staff that was in his
eng	hand, and touched the meat and the
eng	unleavened cakes; and fire went up out
eng	of the rock, and consumed the meat and
eng	the unleavened cakes. Then the LORD’s
eng	angel departed out of his sight.
eng	But if you are afraid to go down, go
eng	with Purah your servant down to the
eng	He came to the men of Succoth, and
eng	said, “See Zebah and Zalmunna,
eng	concerning whom you taunted me, saying,
eng	‘Are the hands of Zebah and Zalmunna
eng	now in your hand, that we should give
eng	bread to your men who are weary?’”
eng	“But the olive tree said to them,
eng	‘Should I stop producing my oil, with
eng	which they honour God and man by me,
eng	and go to wave back and forth over the
eng	Then Zebul said to him, “Now where is
eng	your mouth, that you said, ‘Who is
eng	Abimelech, that we should serve him?’
eng	Isn’t this the people that you have
eng	despised? Please go out now and fight
eng	The LORD said to the children of
eng	Israel, “Didn’t I save you from the
eng	Egyptians, and from the Amorites, from
eng	the children of Ammon, and from the
eng	So now the LORD, the God of Israel, has
eng	dispossessed the Amorites from before
eng	his people Israel, and should you
eng	After him Abdon the son of Hillel the
eng	Pirathonite judged Israel.
eng	He came up, and told his father and his
eng	mother, and said, “I have seen a
eng	woman in Timnah of the daughters of the
eng	Philistines. Now therefore get her for
eng	Her father said, “I most certainly
eng	thought that you utterly hated her;
eng	therefore I gave her to your companion.
eng	Isn’t her younger sister more
eng	beautiful than she? Please take her,
eng	Then the lords of the Philistines
eng	brought up to her seven green cords
eng	which had not been dried, and she bound
eng	When he restored the money to his
eng	mother, his mother took two hundred
eng	pieces of silver, and gave them to a
eng	silversmith, who made an engraved image
eng	and a molten image out of it. It was in
eng	They said to him, “Hold your peace,
eng	put your hand on your mouth, and go
eng	with us, and be to us a father and a
eng	priest. Is it better for you to be
eng	priest to the house of one man, or to
eng	be priest to a tribe and a family in
eng	He said to him, “We are passing from
eng	Bethlehem Judah to the farther side of
eng	the hill country of Ephraim. I am from
eng	there, and I went to Bethlehem Judah. I
eng	am going to the LORD’s house; and
eng	there is no one who has taken me into
eng	The men of Israel, besides Benjamin,
eng	were counted four hundred thousand men
eng	who drew sword. All these were men of
eng	Eighteen thousand men of Benjamin fell;
eng	all these were men of valour.
eng	In the days when the judges judged,
eng	there was a famine in the land. A
eng	certain man of Bethlehem Judah went to
eng	live in the country of Moab, he, and
eng	his wife, and his two sons.
eng	The servant who was set over the
eng	reapers answered, “It is the Moabite
eng	lady who came back with Naomi out of
eng	the country of Moab.
eng	He said, “You are blessed by the
eng	LORD, my daughter. You have shown more
eng	kindness in the latter end than at the
eng	beginning, because you didn’t follow
eng	young men, whether poor or rich.
eng	and Amminadab became the father of
eng	Nahshon, and Nahshon became the father
eng	I prayed for this child; and the LORD
eng	has given me my petition which I asked
eng	He will keep the feet of his holy ones,
eng	The man of yours, whom I don’t cut
eng	off from my altar, will consume your
eng	eyes  and grieve your heart; and all
eng	the increase of your house will die in
eng	the flower of their age.
eng	Samuel grew, and the LORD was with him,
eng	and let none of his words fall to the
eng	When the people of Ashdod arose early
eng	on the next day, behold, Dagon had
eng	fallen on his face to the ground before
eng	the LORD’s ark. They took Dagon, and
eng	set him in his place again.
eng	and the golden mice, according to the
eng	number of all the cities of the
eng	Philistines belonging to the five
eng	lords, both of fortified cities and of
eng	country villages, even to the great
eng	stone, on which they set down the
eng	LORD’s ark. That stone remains to
eng	this day in the field of Joshua of Beth
eng	Now therefore listen to their voice.
eng	However you shall protest solemnly to
eng	them, and shall show them the way of
eng	the king who will reign over them.”
eng	“Tomorrow about this time I will send
eng	you a man out of the land of Benjamin,
eng	and you shall anoint him to be prince
eng	over my people Israel. He will save my
eng	people out of the hand of the
eng	Philistines; for I have looked upon my
eng	people, because their cry has come to
eng	and he said to the children of Israel,
eng	“the LORD, the God of Israel, says
eng	‘I brought Israel up out of Egypt,
eng	and I delivered you out of the hand of
eng	the Egyptians, and out of the hand of
eng	all the kingdoms that oppressed you.’
eng	They said, “You have not defrauded
eng	us, nor oppressed us, neither have you
eng	taken anything from anyone’s hand.”
eng	He stayed seven days, according to the
eng	time set by Samuel; but Samuel didn’t
eng	come to Gilgal, and the people were
eng	scattering from him.
eng	Jonathan climbed up on his hands and on
eng	his feet, and his armour bearer after
eng	him: and they fell before Jonathan; and
eng	his armour bearer killed them after him.
eng	Then he said to all Israel, “You be
eng	on one side, and I and Jonathan my son
eng	will be on the other side.”
eng	Samuel said, “Then what does this
eng	bleating of the sheep in my ears, and
eng	the lowing of the cattle which I hear
eng	When they had come, he looked at Eliab,
eng	and said, “Surely the LORD’s
eng	anointed is before him.”
eng	When Saul and all Israel heard those
eng	words of the Philistine, they were
eng	dismayed, and greatly afraid.
eng	David strapped his sword on his
eng	clothing, and he tried to move; for he
eng	had not tested it. David said to Saul,
eng	“I can’t go with these; for I have
eng	not tested them.” Then David took
eng	and David his ten thousands.”
eng	Jonathan called David, and Jonathan
eng	showed him all those things. Then
eng	Jonathan brought David to Saul, and he
eng	was in his presence, as before.
eng	Jonathan said to David, “Come, and
eng	let us go out into the field.” They
eng	both went out into the field.
eng	As soon as the boy was gone, David
eng	arose out of the south, and fell on his
eng	face to the ground, and bowed himself
eng	three times. They kissed one another,
eng	and wept one with another, and David
eng	He enquired of the LORD for him, gave
eng	him food, and gave him the sword of
eng	Goliath the Philistine.”
eng	The LORD said, “They will deliver you
eng	May the LORD judge between me and you,
eng	and may the LORD avenge me of you; but
eng	my hand will not be on you.
eng	Then Abigail hurried and took two
eng	hundred loaves of bread, two bottles of
eng	wine, five sheep ready dressed, five
eng	seahs  of parched grain, one hundred
eng	clusters of raisins, and two hundred
eng	cakes of figs, and laid them on donkeys.
eng	David therefore sent out spies, and
eng	understood that Saul had certainly come.
eng	Then Achish gave him Ziklag that day:
eng	therefore Ziklag belongs to the kings
eng	of Judah to this day.
eng	The LORD has done to you as he spoke by
eng	me. The LORD has torn the kingdom out
eng	of your hand, and given it to your
eng	neighbour, even to David.
eng	Abiathar brought the ephod to David.
eng	The battle went hard against Saul, and
eng	the archers overtook him; and he was
eng	greatly distressed by reason of the
eng	David lamented with this lamentation
eng	over Saul and over Jonathan his son
eng	and the weapons of war have perished!”
eng	The children of Benjamin gathered
eng	themselves together after Abner, and
eng	became one band, and stood on the top
eng	When Joab and all the army who was with
eng	him had come, they told Joab, “Abner
eng	the son of Ner came to the king, and he
eng	has sent him away, and he has gone in
eng	Then all the tribes of Israel came to
eng	David at Hebron, and spoke, saying,
eng	“Behold, we are your bone and your
eng	David and all the house of Israel
eng	played before the LORD with all kinds
eng	of instruments made of cypress wood,
eng	with harps, with stringed instruments,
eng	with tambourines, with castanets, and
eng	and as from the day that I commanded
eng	judges to be over my people Israel. I
eng	will cause you to rest from all your
eng	enemies. Moreover the LORD tells you
eng	that the LORD will make you a house.
eng	of Syria, of Moab, of the children of
eng	Ammon, of the Philistines, of Amalek,
eng	and of the plunder of Hadadezer, son of
eng	Rehob, king of Zobah.
eng	When the children of Ammon saw that
eng	they had become odious to David, the
eng	children of Ammon sent and hired the
eng	Syrians of Beth Rehob, and the Syrians
eng	of Zobah, twenty thousand footmen, and
eng	the king of Maacah with one thousand
eng	men, and the men of Tob twelve thousand
eng	The men of the city went out, and
eng	fought with Joab. Some of the people
eng	fell, even of David’s servants; and
eng	Uriah the Hittite died also.
eng	On the seventh day, the child died.
eng	David’s servants were afraid to tell
eng	him that the child was dead, for they
eng	said, “Behold, while the child was
eng	yet alive, we spoke to him, and he
eng	didn’t listen to our voice. How will
eng	he then harm himself, if we tell him
eng	that the child is dead?”
eng	Then Amnon hated her with exceedingly
eng	great hatred; for the hatred with which
eng	he hated her was greater than the love
eng	with which he had loved her. Amnon said
eng	to her, “Arise, be gone!”
eng	Go in to the king, and speak like this
eng	to him.” So Joab put the words in her
eng	Absalom lived two full years in
eng	Jerusalem, and he didn’t see the
eng	All the country wept with a loud voice,
eng	and all the people passed over. The
eng	king also himself passed over the brook
eng	Kidron, and all the people passed over,
eng	towards the way of the wilderness.
eng	It may be that the LORD will look on
eng	the wrong done to me, and that the LORD
eng	will repay me good for the cursing of
eng	The woman took and spread the covering
eng	over the well’s mouth, and spread out
eng	bruised grain on it; and nothing was
eng	They took Absalom and cast him into the
eng	great pit in the forest, and raised
eng	over him a very great heap of stones.
eng	Then all Israel fled, each to his own
eng	Then the king arose, and sat in the
eng	gate. They told to all the people,
eng	saying, “Behold, the king is sitting
eng	in the gate.” All the people came
eng	before the king. Now Israel had fled
eng	every man to his tent.
eng	The king answered, “Chimham shall go
eng	over with me, and I will do to him that
eng	which shall seem good to you. Whatever
eng	you request of me, that I will do for
eng	The woman said to Joab, “Behold, his
eng	head will be thrown to you over the
eng	David spoke to the LORD the words of
eng	this song in the day that the LORD
eng	delivered him out of the hand of all
eng	his enemies, and out of the hand of
eng	gathering of waters, and thick clouds
eng	With the pure you will show yourself
eng	You have subdued under me those who
eng	the anointed of the God of Jacob,
eng	He said, “Be it far from me, LORD,
eng	that I should do this! Isn’t this the
eng	blood of the men who risked their lives
eng	to go?” Therefore he would not drink
eng	it. The three mighty men did these
eng	So when they had gone back and forth
eng	through all the land, they came to
eng	Jerusalem at the end of nine months and
eng	Now therefore come, please let me give
eng	you counsel, that you may save your own
eng	life, and your son Solomon’s life.
eng	Adonijah and all the guests who were
eng	with him heard it as they had finished
eng	eating. When Joab heard the sound of
eng	the trumpet, he said, “Why is this
eng	noise of the city being in an uproar?”
eng	Now I ask one petition of you. Don’t
eng	The king sent and called for Shimei,
eng	and said to him, “Didn’t I adjure
eng	you by the LORD, and warn you, saying,
eng	‘Know for certain, that on the day
eng	you go out, and walk anywhere else, you
eng	shall surely die?’ You said to me,
eng	‘The saying that I have heard is
eng	The king said, “Divide the living
eng	child in two, and give half to the one,
eng	and half to the other.”
eng	Solomon had forty thousand stalls of
eng	horses for his chariots, and twelve
eng	He made windows of fixed lattice work
eng	and two doors of cypress wood. The two
eng	leaves of the one door were folding,
eng	and the two leaves of the other door
eng	It was a hand width thick. Its brim was
eng	worked like the brim of a cup, like the
eng	flower of a lily. It held two thousand
eng	King Solomon and all the congregation
eng	of Israel, who were assembled to him,
eng	were with him before the ark,
eng	sacrificing sheep and cattle, that
eng	could not be counted or numbered for
eng	“When the sky is shut up, and there
eng	is no rain, because they have sinned
eng	against you; if they pray towards this
eng	place, and confess your name, and turn
eng	from their sin, when you afflict them,
eng	So Solomon held the feast at that time,
eng	and all Israel with him, a great
eng	assembly, from the entrance of Hamath
eng	to the brook of Egypt, before the LORD
eng	our God, seven days and seven more
eng	days, even fourteen days.
eng	When the queen of Sheba heard of the
eng	fame of Solomon concerning the LORD’s
eng	name, she came to test him with hard
eng	of the nations concerning which the
eng	LORD said to the children of Israel,
eng	“You shall not go amongst them,
eng	neither shall they come amongst you;
eng	for surely they will turn away your
eng	heart after their gods.” Solomon
eng	joined to these in love.
eng	He said to Jeroboam, “Take ten
eng	pieces; for the LORD, the God of
eng	Israel, says, ‘Behold, I will tear
eng	the kingdom out of the hand of Solomon,
eng	and will give ten tribes to you
eng	But as for the children of Israel who
eng	lived in the cities of Judah, Rehoboam
eng	He said to his sons, “Saddle the
eng	donkey for me.” So they saddled the
eng	donkey for him; and he rode on it.
eng	and tore the kingdom away from
eng	David’s house, and gave it you; and
eng	yet you have not been as my servant
eng	David, who kept my commandments, and
eng	who followed me with all his heart, to
eng	do that only which was right in my eyes,
eng	The rest of the acts of Abijam, and all
eng	that he did, aren’t they written in
eng	the book of the chronicles of the kings
eng	of Judah? There was war between Abijam
eng	behold, I will utterly sweep away
eng	Baasha and his house; and I will make
eng	your house like the house of Jeroboam
eng	Ahab made the Asherah; and Ahab did
eng	more yet to provoke the LORD, the God
eng	of Israel, to anger than all the kings
eng	of Israel who were before him.
eng	Ahab said to Obadiah, “Go through the
eng	land, to all the springs of water, and
eng	to all the brooks. Perhaps we may find
eng	grass and save the horses and mules
eng	alive, that we not lose all the
eng	He put the wood in order, and cut the
eng	bull in pieces, and laid it on the
eng	wood. He said, “Fill four jars with
eng	water, and pour it on the burnt
eng	offering, and on the wood.”
eng	After the earthquake a fire passed; but
eng	the LORD was not in the fire. After the
eng	fire, there was a still small voice.
eng	They went out at noon. But Ben Hadad
eng	was drinking himself drunk in the
eng	pavilions, he and the kings, the
eng	thirty-two kings who helped him.
eng	As the king passed by, he cried to the
eng	king; and he said, “Your servant went
eng	out into the middle of the battle; and
eng	behold, a man turned aside, and brought
eng	a man to me, and said, ‘Guard this
eng	man! If by any means he is missing,
eng	then your life shall be for his life,
eng	or else you shall pay a talent  of
eng	The dogs will eat he who dies of Ahab
eng	in the city; and the birds of the sky
eng	will eat he who dies in the field.”
eng	A spirit came out and stood before the
eng	LORD, and said, ‘I will entice him.’
eng	Then Ahaziah the son of Ahab said to
eng	Jehoshaphat, “Let my servants go with
eng	your servants in the ships.” But
eng	Jehoshaphat would not.
eng	Elijah said to him, “Elisha, please
eng	wait here, for the LORD has sent me to
eng	He did that which was evil in the
eng	LORD’s sight, but not like his
eng	father, and like his mother, for he put
eng	away the pillar of Baal that his father
eng	Now a certain woman of the wives of the
eng	sons of the prophets cried out to
eng	Elisha, saying, “Your servant my
eng	husband is dead. You know that your
eng	servant feared the LORD. Now the
eng	creditor has come to take for himself
eng	my two children to be slaves.”
eng	Then she saddled a donkey, and said to
eng	her servant, “Drive, and go forward!
eng	Don’t slow down for me, unless I ask
eng	He departed, and took with him ten
eng	talents  of silver, and six thousand
eng	pieces of gold, and ten changes of
eng	One said, “Please be pleased to go
eng	with your servants.”
eng	She answered, “This woman said to me,
eng	‘Give your son, that we may eat him
eng	today, and we will eat my son
eng	Now the king was talking with Gehazi
eng	the servant of the man of God, saying,
eng	“Please tell me all the great things
eng	that Elisha has done.”
eng	When you come there, find Jehu the son
eng	of Jehoshaphat the son of Nimshi, and
eng	go in, and make him rise up from
eng	amongst his brothers, and take him to
eng	He answered, “What peace, so long as
eng	the prostitution of your mother Jezebel
eng	and her witchcraft abound?”
eng	Know now that nothing will fall to the
eng	earth of the LORD’s word, which the
eng	LORD spoke concerning Ahab’s house.
eng	For the LORD has done that which he
eng	spoke by his servant Elijah.”
eng	Now the rest of the acts of Jehu, and
eng	all that he did, and all his might,
eng	aren’t they written in the book of
eng	the chronicles of the kings of Israel?
eng	Then king Jehoash called for Jehoiada
eng	the priest, and for the other priests,
eng	and said to them, “Why don’t you
eng	repair the damage to the house? Now
eng	therefore take no more money from your
eng	treasurers, but deliver it for repair
eng	of the damage to the house.”
eng	He said to the king of Israel, “Put
eng	your hand on the bow”; and he put his
eng	hand on it. Elisha laid his hands on
eng	They brought him on horses, and he was
eng	buried at Jerusalem with his fathers in
eng	Now the rest of the acts of Menahem,
eng	and all that he did, aren’t they
eng	written in the book of the chronicles
eng	of the kings of Israel?
eng	He burnt his burnt offering and his
eng	meal offering, poured his drink
eng	offering, and sprinkled the blood of
eng	his peace offerings on the altar.
eng	until the LORD removed Israel out of
eng	his sight, as he said by all his
eng	servants the prophets. So Israel was
eng	carried away out of their own land to
eng	Assyria to this day.
eng	because they didn’t obey the LORD
eng	their God’s voice, but transgressed
eng	his covenant, even all that Moses the
eng	servant of the LORD commanded, and
eng	would not hear it or do it.
eng	So the servants of king Hezekiah came
eng	That night, the LORD’s angel went
eng	out, and struck one hundred and
eng	eighty-five thousand in the camp of the
eng	Assyrians. When men arose early in the
eng	morning, behold, these were all dead
eng	He built altars in the LORD’s house,
eng	of which the LORD said, “I will put
eng	my name in Jerusalem.”
eng	Hilkiah the high priest said to Shaphan
eng	the scribe, “I have found the book of
eng	the law in the LORD’s house.”
eng	Hilkiah delivered the book to Shaphan,
eng	The men of the city told him, “It is
eng	the tomb of the man of God, who came
eng	from Judah, and proclaimed these things
eng	that you have done against the altar of
eng	At that time the servants of
eng	Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came up
eng	to Jerusalem, and the city was besieged.
eng	and out of the city he took an officer
eng	who was set over the men of war; and
eng	five men of those who saw the king’s
eng	face, who were found in the city; and
eng	the scribe, the captain of the army,
eng	who mustered the people of the land;
eng	and sixty men of the people of the
eng	land, who were found in the city.
eng	To Eber were born two sons: the name of
eng	the one was Peleg, for in his days the
eng	earth was divided; and his brother’s
eng	Shaul died, and Baal Hanan the son of
eng	Achbor reigned in his place.
eng	The sons of Jerahmeel the firstborn of
eng	Hezron were Ram the firstborn, Bunah,
eng	Oren, Ozem, and Ahijah.
eng	The families of scribes who lived at
eng	Jabez: the Tirathites, the
eng	Shimeathites, and the Sucathites. These
eng	are the Kenites who came from Hammath,
eng	the father of the house of Rechab.
eng	Naarah bore him Ahuzzam, Hepher,
eng	Temeni, and Haahashtari. These were the
eng	Joel, Jehu the son of Joshibiah, the
eng	son of Seraiah, the son of Asiel,
eng	For many fell slain, because the war
eng	was of God. They lived in their place
eng	until the captivity.
eng	As for Elkanah, the sons of Elkanah:
eng	Zophai his son, Nahath his son,
eng	but the fields of the city, and its
eng	villages, they gave to Caleb the son of
eng	Their brothers amongst all the families
eng	of Issachar, mighty men of valour,
eng	listed in all by genealogy, were
eng	eighty-seven thousand.
eng	The sons of Helem his brother: Zophah,
eng	Imna, Shelesh, and Amal.
eng	Iphdeiah, Penuel, the sons of Shashak,
eng	and Bakbakkar, Heresh, Galal, and
eng	Mattaniah the son of Mica, the son of
eng	Zichri, the son of Asaph,
eng	Now the Philistines fought against
eng	Israel, and the men of Israel fled from
eng	before the Philistines, and fell down
eng	slain on Mount Gilboa.
eng	David was then in the stronghold, and
eng	the garrison of the Philistines was in
eng	Bethlehem at that time.
eng	Eliel the Mahavite, and Jeribai, and
eng	Joshaviah, the sons of Elnaam, and
eng	Of the children of Benjamin, Saul’s
eng	relatives, three thousand: for until
eng	then, the greatest part of them had
eng	kept their allegiance to Saul’s house.
eng	Ibhar, Elishua, Elpelet,
eng	So the Levites appointed Heman the son
eng	of Joel; and of his brothers, Asaph the
eng	son of Berechiah; and of the sons of
eng	Merari their brothers, Ethan the son of
eng	Remember his marvellous works that he
eng	Honour and majesty are before him.
eng	and with them Heman and Jeduthun with
eng	trumpets and cymbals for those that
eng	should sound aloud, and with
eng	instruments for the songs of God; and
eng	the sons of Jeduthun to be at the gate.
eng	He defeated Moab; and the Moabites
eng	became servants to David, and brought
eng	So Joab and the people who were with
eng	him came near to the front of the
eng	Syrians to the battle; and they fled
eng	Then David and the elders, clothed in
eng	sackcloth, fell on their faces.
eng	of the gold, the silver, the brass, and
eng	the iron, there is no number. Arise and
eng	be doing, and may the LORD be with
eng	For by the last words of David the sons
eng	of Levi were counted, from twenty years
eng	The brother of Micah: Isshiah; of the
eng	sons of Isshiah, Zechariah.
eng	for the seventeenth to Joshbekashah,
eng	his sons and his brothers, twelve;
eng	Of the Amramites, of the Izharites, of
eng	the Hebronites, of the Uzzielites:
eng	of the half-tribe of Manasseh in
eng	Gilead, Iddo the son of Zechariah; of
eng	Benjamin, Jaasiel the son of Abner;
eng	and the forks, the basins, and the
eng	cups, of pure gold; and for the golden
eng	bowls by weight for every bowl; and for
eng	the silver bowls by weight for every
eng	The LORD magnified Solomon exceedingly
eng	in the sight of all Israel, and gave to
eng	him such royal majesty as had not been
eng	on any king before him in Israel.
eng	“Send me also cedar trees, cypress
eng	trees, and algum trees out of Lebanon;
eng	for I know that your servants know how
eng	to cut timber in Lebanon. Behold, my
eng	servants will be with your servants,
eng	Under it was the likeness of oxen,
eng	which encircled it, for ten cubits,
eng	encircling the sea. The oxen were in
eng	two rows, cast when it was cast.
eng	There was nothing in the ark except the
eng	two tablets which Moses put at Horeb,
eng	when the LORD made a covenant with the
eng	children of Israel, when they came out
eng	then hear from heaven, act, and judge
eng	your servants, bringing retribution to
eng	the wicked, to bring his way on his own
eng	head; and justifying the righteous, to
eng	give him according to his righteousness.
eng	On the eighth day, they held a solemn
eng	assembly; for they kept the dedication
eng	of the altar seven days, and the feast
eng	Then Solomon went to Ezion Geber and to
eng	Eloth, on the seashore in the land of
eng	Now the rest of the acts of Solomon,
eng	first and last, aren’t they written
eng	in the history of Nathan the prophet,
eng	and in the prophecy of Ahijah the
eng	Shilonite, and in the visions of Iddo
eng	the seer concerning Jeroboam the son of
eng	Gath, Mareshah, Ziph,
eng	Now the acts of Rehoboam, first and
eng	last, aren’t they written in the
eng	histories of Shemaiah the prophet and
eng	of Iddo the seer, in the genealogies?
eng	There were wars between Rehoboam and
eng	Jeroboam continually.
eng	For he said to Judah, “Let us build
eng	these cities, and make walls around
eng	them, with towers, gates, and bars. The
eng	land is yet before us, because we have
eng	sought the LORD our God. We have sought
eng	him, and he has given us rest on every
eng	side.” So they built and prospered.
eng	“Let there be a treaty between me and
eng	you, as there was between my father and
eng	your father. Behold, I have sent you
eng	silver and gold. Go, break your treaty
eng	with Baasha king of Israel, that he may
eng	These were those who waited on the
eng	king, besides those whom the king put
eng	in the fortified cities throughout all
eng	Micaiah said, “Behold, you shall see
eng	on that day, when you go into an inner
eng	room to hide yourself.”
eng	‘If evil comes on us—the sword,
eng	judgement, pestilence, or famine—we
eng	will stand before this house, and
eng	before you (for your name is in this
eng	house), and cry to you in our
eng	affliction, and you will hear and
eng	He had brothers, the sons of
eng	Jehoshaphat: Azariah, Jehiel,
eng	Zechariah, Azariah, Michael, and
eng	Shephatiah. All these were the sons of
eng	Jehoshaphat king of Israel.
eng	He was with them hidden in God’s
eng	house six years while Athaliah reigned
eng	They made a proclamation through Judah
eng	and Jerusalem, to bring in for the LORD
eng	the tax that Moses the servant of God
eng	laid on Israel in the wilderness.
eng	Amaziah took courage, and led his
eng	people out, and went to the Valley of
eng	Salt, and struck ten thousand of the
eng	The whole number of the heads of
eng	fathers’ households, even the mighty
eng	men of valour, was two thousand and six
eng	Now you intend to degrade the children
eng	of Judah and Jerusalem as male and
eng	female slaves for yourselves. Aren’t
eng	there even with you trespasses of your
eng	own against the LORD your God?
eng	and of the sons of Elizaphan, Shimri
eng	and Jeuel; and of the sons of Asaph,
eng	Zechariah and Mattaniah;
eng	Don’t be like your fathers and like
eng	your brothers, who trespassed against
eng	the LORD, the God of their fathers, so
eng	that he gave them up to desolation, as
eng	Azariah the chief priest, of the house
eng	of Zadok, answered him and said,
eng	“Since people began to bring the
eng	offerings into the LORD’s house, we
eng	have eaten and had enough, and have
eng	plenty left over, for the LORD has
eng	blessed his people; and that which is
eng	left is this great store.”
eng	They spoke of the God of Jerusalem as
eng	of the gods of the peoples of the
eng	earth, which are the work of men’s
eng	He built up the LORD’s altar, and
eng	offered sacrifices of peace offerings
eng	and of thanksgiving on it, and
eng	commanded Judah to serve the LORD, the
eng	“Go enquire of the LORD for me, and
eng	for those who are left in Israel and in
eng	Judah, concerning the words of the book
eng	that is found; for great is the
eng	LORD’s wrath that is poured out on
eng	us, because our fathers have not kept
eng	the LORD’s word, to do according to
eng	all that is written in this book.”
eng	The children of Israel who were present
eng	kept the Passover at that time, and the
eng	feast of unleavened bread seven days.
eng	He carried those who had escaped from
eng	the sword away to Babylon, and they
eng	were servants to him and his sons until
eng	the reign of the kingdom of Persia,
eng	The children of Bigvai, two thousand
eng	the children of Keros, the children of
eng	Siaha, the children of Padon,
eng	They kept the feast of tents, as it is
eng	written, and offered the daily burnt
eng	offerings by number, according to the
eng	ordinance, as the duty of every day
eng	The letter which you sent to us has
eng	been plainly read before me.
eng	Now therefore, Tattenai, governor
eng	beyond the River, Shetharbozenai, and
eng	your companions the Apharsachites, who
eng	are beyond the River, you must stay far
eng	Of the sons of Azgad, Johanan the son
eng	of Hakkatan; and with him one hundred
eng	and I said, “My God, I am ashamed and
eng	blush to lift up my face to you, my
eng	God; for our iniquities have increased
eng	over our head, and our guiltiness has
eng	grown up to the heavens.
eng	Of the sons of Immer: Hanani and
eng	and said, “I beg you, LORD,  the God
eng	of heaven, the great and awesome God,
eng	who keeps covenant and loving kindness
eng	with those who love him and keep his
eng	They said, “Let’s rise up and
eng	build.” So they strengthened their
eng	hands for the good work.
eng	Above the horse gate, the priests made
eng	repairs, everyone across from his own
eng	There were also some that said, “We
eng	are mortgaging our fields, and our
eng	vineyards, and our houses. Let us get
eng	grain, because of the famine.”
eng	I discerned, and behold, God had not
eng	sent him; but he pronounced this
eng	prophecy against me. Tobiah and
eng	Sanballat had hired him.
eng	The children of Hashum, three hundred
eng	The children of Besai, the children of
eng	Meunim, the children of Nephushesim,
eng	Also Jeshua, Bani, Sherebiah, Jamin,
eng	Akkub, Shabbethai, Hodiah, Maaseiah,
eng	Kelita, Azariah, Jozabad, Hanan,
eng	Pelaiah, and the Levites, caused the
eng	people to understand the law; and the
eng	people stayed in their place.
eng	yet you in your manifold mercies
eng	didn’t forsake them in the
eng	wilderness. The pillar of cloud
eng	didn’t depart from over them by day,
eng	to lead them in the way; neither did
eng	the pillar of fire by night, to show
eng	them light, and the way in which they
eng	Mica, Rehob, Hashabiah,
eng	The people blessed all the men who
eng	willingly offered themselves to dwell
eng	at Anathoth, Nob, Ananiah,
eng	These were in the days of Joiakim the
eng	son of Jeshua, the son of Jozadak, and
eng	in the days of Nehemiah the governor,
eng	and of Ezra the priest and scribe.
eng	Then I commanded, and they cleansed the
eng	rooms. I brought into them the vessels
eng	of God’s house, with the meal
eng	offerings and the frankincense again.
eng	In accordance with the law, the
eng	drinking was not compulsory; for so the
eng	king had instructed all the officials
eng	of his house, that they should do
eng	according to every man’s pleasure.
eng	So Esther was taken to King Ahasuerus
eng	into his royal house in the tenth
eng	month, which is the month Tebeth, in
eng	the seventh year of his reign.
eng	He also gave him the copy of the
eng	writing of the decree that was given
eng	out in Shushan to destroy them, to show
eng	it to Esther, and to declare it to her,
eng	and to urge her to go in to the king,
eng	to make supplication to him, and to
eng	make request before him, for her people.
eng	The king said, “Let him come in.”
eng	Write also to the Jews, as it pleases
eng	you, in the king’s name, and seal it
eng	with the king’s ring; for the writing
eng	which is written in the king’s name,
eng	and sealed with the king’s ring, may
eng	not be reversed by any man.”
eng	to enjoin them that they should keep
eng	the fourteenth and fifteenth days of
eng	the month Adar yearly,
eng	that there came a messenger to Job, and
eng	said, “The oxen were ploughing, and
eng	the donkeys feeding beside them,
eng	neither let the light shine on it.
eng	There the prisoners are at ease
eng	Or where were the upright cut off?
eng	They perish forever without any
eng	the counsel of the cunning is carried
eng	“Oh that my anguish were weighed,
eng	Which are black by reason of the ice,
eng	Is there injustice on my tongue?
eng	then you scare me with dreams,
eng	and make the habitation of your
eng	righteousness prosperous.
eng	your lips with shouting.
eng	And choose my words to argue with him?
eng	I know that you will not hold me
eng	there is no one who can deliver out of
eng	Leave me alone, that I may find a
eng	when a man is born as a wild donkey’s
eng	Those who provoke God are secure,
eng	He pours contempt on princes,
eng	Shall not his majesty make you afraid,
eng	Will you pursue the dry stubble?
eng	As the waters fail from the sea,
eng	and fill himself with the east wind?
eng	that which I have seen I will declare
eng	for emptiness shall be his reward.
eng	They have gaped on me with their mouth.
eng	My days are extinct,
eng	Shall it go down with me to the gates
eng	There shall dwell in his tent that
eng	which is none of his.
eng	and taken the crown from my head.
eng	That with an iron pen and lead
eng	neither shall his place any more see
eng	The bronze arrow shall strike him
eng	Their bulls breed without fail.
eng	The marrow of his bones is moistened.
eng	Neither is there any end to your
eng	The fire has consumed their remnant.’
eng	Would he contend with me in the
eng	greatness of his power?
eng	They turn the needy out of the way.
eng	They shut themselves up in the daytime.
eng	Or how can he who is born of a woman be
eng	Behold, these are but the outskirts of
eng	Though he heap up silver as the dust,
eng	That path no bird of prey knows,
eng	Destruction and Death say,
eng	The aged rose up and stood.
eng	Their mouths drank as with the spring
eng	They cast up against me their ways of
eng	When I waited for light, there came
eng	then let my wife grind for another,
eng	and have said to the fine gold, ‘You
eng	and its furrows weep together;
eng	for he has not directed his words
eng	Behold, my terror shall not make you
eng	His bones that were not seen stick out.
eng	“Hear my words, you wise men.
eng	Listen to the voice of my words.
eng	that the godless man may not reign,
eng	Or what does he receive from your hand?
eng	He doesn’t withdraw his eyes from the
eng	when people are cut off in their place.
eng	the sound that goes out of his mouth.
eng	Do you know the workings of the clouds,
eng	when the morning stars sang together,
eng	Have you entered the treasuries of the
eng	Who can count the clouds by wisdom?
eng	Can you hold the wild ox in the furrow
eng	As often as the trumpet sounds he
eng	Pour out the fury of your anger.
eng	Can you put a rope into his nose,
eng	They are joined to one another.
eng	He makes the sea like a pot of ointment.
eng	Blessed is the man who doesn’t walk
eng	in the counsel of the wicked,
eng	Ask of me, and I will give the nations
eng	for your inheritance,
eng	Your blessing be on your people.
eng	You hate all workers of iniquity.
eng	I am weary with my groaning.
eng	and to my integrity that is in me.
eng	and crowned him with glory and honour.
eng	Sing praises to the LORD, who dwells in
eng	The wicked, in the pride of his face,
eng	As for the evil man, seek out his
eng	wickedness until you find none.
eng	May the LORD cut off all flattering
eng	They have done abominable deeds.
eng	He who does these things shall never be
eng	You have tried me, and found nothing.
eng	I shall be satisfied, when I awake,
eng	with seeing your form.
eng	The Most High uttered his voice:
eng	For you will save the afflicted people,
eng	even to the LORD, but he didn’t
eng	In them he has set a tent for the sun,
eng	and accept your burnt sacrifice.
eng	Through the loving kindness of the Most
eng	High, he shall not be moved.
eng	Let him rescue him, since he delights
eng	Yes, from the horns of the wild oxen,
eng	you have answered me.
eng	He guides me in the paths of
eng	righteousness for his name’s sake.
eng	The LORD mighty in battle.
eng	pardon my iniquity, for it is great.
eng	neither will I go in with hypocrites.
eng	and to enquire in his temple.
eng	lest, if you are silent to me,
eng	The God of glory thunders, even the
eng	LORD on many waters.
eng	“I shall never be moved.”
eng	for you have seen my affliction.
eng	which you have laid up for those who
eng	You will preserve me from trouble.
eng	He makes the thoughts of the peoples to
eng	I sought the LORD, and he answered me,
eng	Many are the afflictions of the
eng	Unrighteous witnesses rise up.
eng	Don’t let them gloat over me.
eng	your righteousness to the upright in
eng	The Lord will laugh at him,
eng	All day long he deals graciously, and
eng	He is their stronghold in the time of
eng	But I, as a deaf man, don’t hear.
eng	Let me know how frail I am.
eng	out of the miry clay.
eng	Hurry to help me, LORD.
eng	has lifted up his heel against me.
eng	a prayer to the God of my life.
eng	but you planted them.
eng	All day long my dishonour is before me,
eng	You are the most excellent of the sons
eng	You shall make them princes in all the
eng	Oh clap your hands, all you nations.
eng	I will incline my ear to a proverb.
eng	I have no need for a bull from your
eng	Whoever offers the sacrifice of
eng	thanksgiving glorifies me,
eng	Deliver me from the guilt of bloodshed,
eng	O God, the God of my salvation.
eng	and strengthened himself in his
eng	For strangers have risen up against me.
eng	Confuse them, Lord, and confound their
eng	His mouth was smooth as butter,
eng	In God, I will praise his word.
eng	He shall wash his feet in the blood of
eng	let them be caught in their pride,
eng	So that your beloved may be delivered,
eng	You have given me the heritage of those
eng	In the balances they will go up.
eng	But those who seek my soul, to destroy
eng	Praise waits for you, God, in Zion.
eng	Your carts overflow with abundance.
eng	You have refined us, as silver is
eng	Let all the peoples praise you.
eng	God, when you went out before your
eng	Blessed be the Lord, who daily bears
eng	Sing to God, you kingdoms of the earth!
eng	The reproaches of those who reproach
eng	you have fallen on me.
eng	Let their eyes be darkened, so that
eng	Let them be disappointed and confounded
eng	Don’t forsake me when my strength
eng	I sing praises to you with the lyre,
eng	the poor, who has no helper.
eng	neither are they plagued like other men.
eng	so, Lord,  when you awake, you will
eng	despise their fantasies.
eng	They have burnt your sanctuary to the
eng	Let the poor and needy praise your name.
eng	His name is great in Israel.
eng	My hand was stretched out in the night,
eng	and didn’t get tired.
eng	the sons of Jacob and Joseph.
eng	who should arise and tell their
eng	Behold, he struck the rock, so that
eng	Therefore he consumed their days in
eng	their sycamore fig trees with frost.
eng	and delivered his strength into
eng	Their blood they have shed like water
eng	who brought you up out of the land of
eng	Arise, God, judge the earth,
eng	as the flame that sets the mountains on
eng	For a day in your courts is better than
eng	Truth springs out of the earth.
eng	I will glorify your name forever more.
eng	Let my prayer enter into your presence.
eng	LORD, why do you reject my soul?
eng	You have broken Rahab in pieces, like
eng	and strike those who hate him.
eng	But you have rejected and spurned.
eng	with which they have mocked the
eng	footsteps of your anointed one.
eng	and the Most High your dwelling place,
eng	they will be destroyed forever.
eng	The LORD on high is mighty.
eng	For the LORD won’t reject his people,
eng	His hands formed the dry land.
eng	ascribe to the LORD glory and strength.
eng	Let all them be shamed who serve
eng	Let the rivers clap their hands.
eng	for the LORD, our God, is holy!
eng	He who speaks falsehood won’t be
eng	established before my eyes.
eng	For your servants take pleasure in her
eng	Their offspring  will be established
eng	As a flower of the field, so he
eng	The waters stood above the mountains.
eng	You make darkness, and it is night,
eng	Let my meditation be sweet to him.
eng	They went about from nation to nation,
eng	He sent darkness, and made it dark.
eng	He brought his people out with joy,
eng	and redeemed them from the hand of the
eng	but murmured in their tents,
eng	and prostituted themselves in their
eng	from the north and from the south.
eng	They draw near to the gates of death.
eng	water springs into a thirsty ground,
eng	Let your glory be over all the earth.
eng	When he is judged, let him come out
eng	But deal with me, the LORD the Lord,
eng	for your name’s sake,
eng	“You are a priest forever in the
eng	order of Melchizedek.”
eng	His praise endures forever!
eng	The LORD’s name is to be praised.
eng	but to your name give glory,
eng	Blessed are you by the LORD,
eng	Out of my distress, I called on the
eng	I will enter into them.
eng	Oh that my ways were steadfast
eng	My soul is consumed with longing for
eng	your ordinances at all times.
eng	for I delight in them.
eng	for your word has revived me.
eng	according to your word, LORD.
eng	My soul faints for your salvation.
eng	I have seen a limit to all perfection,
eng	I have taken your testimonies as a
eng	It is time to act, LORD,
eng	I am small and despised.
eng	for they don’t seek your statutes.
eng	Deliver me according to your word.
eng	who made heaven and earth.
eng	To you I do lift up my eyes,
eng	so that the righteous won’t use their
eng	so are the children of youth.
eng	Neither do those who go by say,
eng	“Surely I will not come into the
eng	structure of my house,
eng	There I will make the horn of David to
eng	that our Lord is above all gods.
eng	House of Aaron, praise the LORD!
eng	To him who divided the Red Sea apart;
eng	On the willows in that land,
eng	For though the LORD is high, yet he
eng	looks after the lowly;
eng	the light around me will be night”;
eng	Try me, and know my thoughts.
eng	I know that the LORD will maintain the
eng	cause of the afflicted,
eng	With my voice, I ask the LORD for mercy.
eng	Therefore my spirit is overwhelmed
eng	my loving kindness, my fortress,
eng	and no outcry in our streets.
eng	and loving in all his deeds.
eng	who executes justice for the oppressed;
eng	He provides food for the livestock,
eng	Praise him, sun and moon!
eng	Let Israel rejoice in him who made them.
eng	The proverbs of Solomon, the son of
eng	David, king of Israel:
eng	for their feet run to evil.
eng	They wanted none of my counsel.
eng	to deliver you from the way of evil,
eng	and good understanding in the sight of
eng	By understanding, he established the
eng	Surely he mocks the mockers,
eng	When you run, you will not stumble.
eng	Don’t turn to the right hand nor to
eng	Drink water out of your own cistern,
eng	like a bird from the snare of the
eng	and don’t forsake your mother’s
eng	He won’t spare in the day of
eng	Today I have paid my vows.
eng	Doesn’t understanding raise her voice?
eng	nobles, and all the righteous rulers of
eng	always rejoicing before him,
eng	Reprove a wise man, and he will love
eng	He who gathers in summer is a wise son,
eng	The tongue of the righteous is like
eng	The integrity of the upright shall
eng	Wicked people earn deceitful wages,
eng	A good man shall obtain favour from the
eng	He who is truthful testifies honestly,
eng	The soul of the sluggard desires, and
eng	Longing fulfilled is sweet to the soul,
eng	Fools mock at making atonement for sins,
eng	The crown of the wise is their riches,
eng	A gentle tongue is a tree of life,
eng	The way of the sluggard is like a thorn
eng	The plans of the heart belong to man,
eng	How much better it is to get wisdom
eng	Grey hair is a crown of glory.
eng	Whoever rewards evil for good,
eng	Even a fool, when he keeps silent, is
eng	The heart of the discerning gets
eng	Many will entreat the favour of a ruler,
eng	that you may be wise in your latter end.
eng	but who can find a faithful man?
eng	won’t be blessed in the end.
eng	is a fleeting vapour for those who seek
eng	finds life, righteousness, and honour.
eng	whoever guards his soul stays from them.
eng	of counsel and knowledge,
eng	Don’t eat the food of him who has a
eng	or those who gorge themselves on meat:
eng	Your eyes will see strange things,
eng	If you say, “Behold, we didn’t know
eng	and a rich blessing will come on them.
eng	Don’t exalt yourself in the presence
eng	is like a bad tooth, or a lame foot.
eng	Answer a fool according to his folly,
eng	Without gossip, a quarrel dies down.
eng	so a man’s heart reflects the man.
eng	than he who is perverse in his ways,
eng	To show partiality is not good;
eng	Mockers stir up a city,
eng	A man’s pride brings him low,
eng	Feed me with the food that is needful
eng	the way of a serpent on a rock;
eng	or if you have thought evil,
eng	She seeks wool and flax,
eng	and doesn’t eat the bread of idleness.
eng	I made myself great works. I built
eng	myself houses. I planted myself
eng	a time to break down,
eng	I said in my heart, “God will judge
eng	the righteous and the wicked; for there
eng	is a time there for every purpose and
eng	Moreover the profit of the earth is for
eng	all. The king profits from the field.
eng	Surely extortion makes the wise man
eng	foolish; and a bribe destroys the
eng	For he doesn’t know that which will
eng	be; for who can tell him how it will be?
eng	so does a little folly outweigh wisdom
eng	and that which has wings may tell the
eng	Remember also your Creator in the days
eng	The words of the wise are like goads;
eng	and like nails well fastened are words
eng	from the masters of assemblies, which
eng	are given from one shepherd.
eng	If you don’t know, most beautiful
eng	He brought me to the banquet hall.
eng	until it so desires.
eng	Your mouth is lovely.
eng	my fingers with liquid myrrh,
eng	His mouth is sweetness;
eng	Who is she who looks out as the morning,
eng	His left hand would be under my head.
eng	Solomon had a vineyard at Baal Hamon.
eng	From the sole of the foot even to the
eng	head there is no soundness in it:
eng	I am weary of bearing them.
eng	the Mighty One of Israel, says:
eng	and we will walk in his paths.”
eng	and the LORD alone will be exalted in
eng	Stop trusting in man, whose breath is
eng	because their tongue and their doings
eng	are against the LORD,
eng	In that day the Lord will take away the
eng	beauty of their anklets, the headbands,
eng	the crescent necklaces,
eng	“Now, inhabitants of Jerusalem and
eng	Therefore Sheol  has enlarged its
eng	because they have rejected the law of
eng	“Holy, holy, holy, is the LORD of
eng	In the days of Ahaz the son of Jotham,
eng	the son of Uzziah, king of Judah, Rezin
eng	the king of Syria, and Pekah the son of
eng	Remaliah, king of Israel, went up to
eng	Jerusalem to war against it, but could
eng	not prevail against it.
eng	“Because this people have refused the
eng	waters of Shiloah that go softly, and
eng	rejoice in Rezin and Remaliah’s son;
eng	including Ephraim and the inhabitants
eng	of Samaria, who say in pride and in
eng	Through the LORD of Armies’ wrath,
eng	the land is burnt up;
eng	The remnant of the trees of his forest
eng	shall be few, so that a child could
eng	and faithfulness the belt of his waist.
eng	They come from a far country, from the
eng	uttermost part of heaven, even the
eng	LORD, and the weapons of his
eng	indignation, to destroy the whole land.
eng	How you have fallen from heaven,
eng	morning star, son of the dawn! How you
eng	are cut down to the ground, who laid
eng	For the waters of Dimon are full of
eng	blood; for I will bring yet more on
eng	Dimon, a lion on those of Moab who
eng	escape, and on the remnant of the land.
eng	Ah, the land of the rustling of wings,
eng	which is beyond the rivers of Ethiopia;
eng	In that day there will be a highway out
eng	of Egypt to Assyria, and the Assyrian
eng	shall come into Egypt, and the Egyptian
eng	into Assyria; and the Egyptians will
eng	worship with the Assyrians.
eng	What ails you now, that you have all
eng	gone up to the housetops?
eng	When the report comes to Egypt, they
eng	will be in anguish at the report of
eng	But I said, “I pine away! I pine
eng	away! woe is me!” The treacherous
eng	have dealt treacherously. Yes, the
eng	treacherous have dealt very
eng	For he has brought down those who dwell
eng	on high, the lofty city.
eng	You have increased the nation!
eng	Has he struck them as he struck those
eng	who struck them? Or are they killed
eng	like those who killed them were killed?
eng	Now therefore don’t be scoffers, lest
eng	your bonds be made strong; for I have
eng	heard a decree of destruction from the
eng	Lord, the LORD of Armies, on the whole
eng	But when he sees his children, the work
eng	of my hands, in the middle of him, they
eng	will sanctify my name. Yes, they will
eng	sanctify the Holy One of Jacob, and
eng	will stand in awe of the God of Israel.
eng	His breath is as an overflowing stream
eng	that reaches even to the neck, to sift
eng	the nations with the sieve of
eng	destruction; and a bridle that leads to
eng	ruin will be in the jaws of the peoples.
eng	For in that day everyone shall cast
eng	away his idols of silver and his idols
eng	of gold—sin which your own hands have
eng	But the noble devises noble things;
eng	Though hail flattens the forest,
eng	“Now I will lift myself up.
eng	a people of a deep speech that you
eng	Their slain will also be cast out,
eng	He will stretch the line of confusion
eng	They will see the LORD’s glory,
eng	and sorrow and sighing will flee
eng	So Rabshakeh returned, and found the
eng	king of Assyria warring against Libnah,
eng	for he had heard that he was departed
eng	As he was worshipping in the house of
eng	Nisroch his god, Adrammelech and
eng	Sharezer his sons struck him with the
eng	sword; and they escaped into the land
eng	of Ararat. Esar Haddon his son reigned
eng	I will walk carefully all my years
eng	because of the anguish of my soul.
eng	Make a level highway in the desert for
eng	He will gently lead those who have
eng	Haven’t you understood from the
eng	foundations of the earth?
eng	His understanding is unsearchable.
eng	They say to their brothers, “Be
eng	You will thresh the mountains,
eng	that we may be dismayed,
eng	He will not fail nor be discouraged,
eng	Let them shout from the top of the
eng	Or who is as deaf as my messenger whom
eng	When you walk through the fire, you
eng	“You are my witnesses,” says the
eng	The animals of the field shall honour
eng	and formed you from the womb,
eng	Is there a God besides me?
eng	and takes the cypress and the oak,
eng	and he can’t deliver his soul,
eng	and ‘I will dry up your rivers;’
eng	They shall come over in chains;
eng	Who has declared it of old?
eng	and even to grey hairs I will carry you.
eng	so that you did not lay these things to
eng	Behold, they are like stubble.
eng	even hidden things, which you have not
eng	and his arm will be against the
eng	“There is no peace”, says the LORD,
eng	and in a day of salvation I have helped
eng	Lift up your eyes all around, and see:
eng	and I will save your children.
eng	Therefore I have set my face like a
eng	but my righteousness will be forever,
eng	I have put my words in your mouth,
eng	who have said to your soul, ‘Bow
eng	down, that we may walk over you;’
eng	sing together, you waste places of
eng	and acquainted with disease.
eng	he will see his offspring.
eng	even a wife of youth, when she is cast
eng	off,” says your God.
eng	and I have created the destroyer to
eng	“For as the heavens are higher than
eng	Do not let the eunuch say, “Behold, I
eng	They have all turned to their own way,
eng	You also went up there to offer
eng	For thus says the high and lofty One
eng	who inhabits eternity,
eng	They delight to draw near to God.
eng	“If you take away from amongst you
eng	nor his ear dull, that it can’t hear.
eng	Therefore is justice far from us,
eng	Therefore his own arm brought salvation
eng	and your daughters will be carried in
eng	The sons of those who afflicted you
eng	will come bowing to you;
eng	and the days of your mourning will end.
eng	But you will be called the LORD’s
eng	and all kings your glory,
eng	Lift up a banner for the peoples.
eng	I trod down the peoples in my anger,
eng	As the livestock that go down into the
eng	nor perceived by the ear,
eng	Will you keep silent, and punish us
eng	so will I do for my servants’ sake,
eng	and the Lord GOD will kill you.
eng	It will happen that, before they call,
eng	“Your brothers who hate you,
eng	You will be comforted in Jerusalem.”
eng	Then the LORD stretched out his hand,
eng	and touched my mouth. Then the LORD
eng	said to me, “Behold, I have put my
eng	words in your mouth.
eng	“What unrighteousness have your
eng	fathers found in me,
eng	“For my people have committed two
eng	“How can you say, ‘I am not defiled.
eng	Generation, consider the LORD’s word.
eng	I saw when, for this very cause, that
eng	backsliding Israel had committed
eng	adultery, I had put her away and given
eng	her a bill of divorce, yet treacherous
eng	Judah, her sister, had no fear; but she
eng	also went and played the prostitute.
eng	a full wind from these will come for
eng	me. Now I will also utter judgements
eng	For the house of Israel and the house
eng	of Judah have dealt very treacherously
eng	against me,” says the LORD.
eng	To whom should I speak and testify,
eng	that they may hear? Behold, their ear
eng	is uncircumcised, and they can’t
eng	listen. Behold, the LORD’s word has
eng	become a reproach to them. They have no
eng	The bellows blow fiercely. The lead is
eng	consumed in the fire. In vain they go
eng	on refining, for the wicked are not
eng	Cut off your hair, and throw it away,
eng	and take up a lamentation on the bare
eng	heights; for the LORD has rejected and
eng	forsaken the generation of his wrath.
eng	For everyone from the least even to the
eng	greatest is given to covetousness;
eng	which will not be charmed;
eng	They have grown strong in the land,
eng	a dwelling place of jackals.
eng	and as the handful after the harvester;
eng	There is no one like you, LORD.
eng	and brings the wind out of his
eng	and a great commotion out of the north
eng	and the holy flesh has passed from you?
eng	You see me, and test my heart towards
eng	They have trodden my portion under foot.
eng	“Therefore you shall speak to them
eng	this word: ‘the LORD, the God of
eng	Israel says, “Every bottle should be
eng	filled with wine.”’ They will tell
eng	you, ‘Do we not certainly know that
eng	every bottle should be filled with
eng	Won’t sorrows take hold of you, as of
eng	They come to the cisterns,
eng	They have not restrained their feet.
eng	Do not disgrace the throne of your
eng	She who has borne seven languishes.
eng	I didn’t sit in the assembly of those
eng	who make merry and rejoice.
eng	For the LORD of Armies, the God of
eng	Israel says: “Behold, I will cause to
eng	cease out of this place, before your
eng	eyes and in your days, the voice of
eng	mirth and the voice of gladness, the
eng	voice of the bridegroom and the voice
eng	You, even of yourself, will discontinue
eng	from your heritage that I gave you.
eng	A glorious throne, set on high from the
eng	then there will enter in by the gates
eng	of this city kings and princes sitting
eng	on David’s throne, riding in chariots
eng	and on horses, they, and their princes,
eng	the men of Judah, and the inhabitants
eng	of Jerusalem; and this city will remain
eng	I will scatter them as with an east
eng	wind before the enemy.
eng	“‘“I will make the counsel of
eng	Judah and Jerusalem void in this place.
eng	I will cause them to fall by the sword
eng	before their enemies, and by the hand
eng	of those who seek their life. I will
eng	give their dead bodies to be food for
eng	the birds of the sky and for the
eng	animals of the earth.
eng	Denounce, and we will denounce him!”
eng	Why did I come out of the womb to see
eng	But if you will not hear these words, I
eng	swear by myself,” says the LORD,
eng	“that this house will become a
eng	Then it was well with him.
eng	the pain as of a woman in travail!
eng	but, ‘As the LORD lives, who brought
eng	up and who led the offspring  of the
eng	house of Israel out of the north
eng	country, and from all the countries
eng	where I had driven them.’ Then they
eng	will dwell in their own land.”
eng	“Behold, I will feed them with
eng	so that I can’t see him?” says the
eng	which Jeremiah the prophet spoke to all
eng	the people of Judah, and to all the
eng	inhabitants of Jerusalem:
eng	and utter his voice from his holy
eng	to listen to the words of my servants
eng	the prophets, whom I send to you, even
eng	rising up early and sending them, but
eng	you have not listened;
eng	“‘“‘It will happen that I will
eng	punish the nation and the kingdom which
eng	will not serve the same Nebuchadnezzar
eng	king of Babylon, and that will not put
eng	their neck under the yoke of the king
eng	of Babylon,’ says the LORD, ‘with
eng	the sword, with famine, and with
eng	pestilence, until I have consumed them
eng	Therefore the LORD says, ‘Behold, I
eng	will send you away from off the surface
eng	of the earth. This year you will die,
eng	because you have spoken rebellion
eng	Zephaniah the priest read this letter
eng	in the hearing of Jeremiah the prophet.
eng	For I am with you, says the LORD, to
eng	“Yes, I have loved you with an
eng	‘He who scattered Israel will gather
eng	‘You have chastised me,
eng	“Behold, the days come,” says the
eng	LORD, “that I will sow the house of
eng	Israel and the house of Judah with the
eng	seed of man and with the seed of animal.
eng	the LORD says: “If heaven above can
eng	“Behold, siege ramps have come to the
eng	city to take it. The city is given into
eng	the hand of the Chaldeans who fight
eng	against it, because of the sword, of
eng	the famine, and of the pestilence. What
eng	you have spoken has happened. Behold,
eng	the LORD says: “Yet again there will
eng	be heard in this place, about which you
eng	say, ‘It is waste, without man and
eng	without animal, even in the cities of
eng	Judah, and in the streets of Jerusalem,
eng	that are desolate, without man and
eng	without inhabitant and without
eng	that every man should let his male
eng	servant, and every man his female
eng	servant, who is a Hebrew or a
eng	Hebrewess, go free; that no one should
eng	make bondservants of them, of a Jew his
eng	“Therefore the LORD, the God of
eng	Armies, the God of Israel, says:
eng	‘Behold, I will bring on Judah and on
eng	all the inhabitants of Jerusalem all
eng	the evil that I have pronounced against
eng	them; because I have spoken to them,
eng	but they have not heard; and I have
eng	called to them, but they have not
eng	The king commanded Jerahmeel the
eng	king’s son, and Seraiah the son of
eng	Azriel, and Shelemiah the son of
eng	Abdeel, to arrest Baruch the scribe and
eng	Jeremiah the prophet; but the LORD hid
eng	Shephatiah the son of Mattan, and
eng	Gedaliah the son of Pashhur, and Jucal
eng	the son of Shelemiah, and Pashhur the
eng	son of Malchijah, heard the words that
eng	Jeremiah spoke to all the people,
eng	then you shall tell them, ‘I
eng	presented my supplication before the
eng	king, that he would not cause me to
eng	return to Jonathan’s house, to die
eng	Gedaliah the son of Ahikam the son of
eng	Shaphan swore to them and to their men,
eng	saying, “Don’t be afraid to serve
eng	the Chaldeans. Dwell in the land, and
eng	serve the king of Babylon, and it will
eng	that the LORD your God may show us the
eng	way in which we should walk, and the
eng	things that we should do.”
eng	He will come, and will strike the land
eng	of Egypt; such as are for death will be
eng	put to death, and such as are for
eng	captivity to captivity, and such as are
eng	for the sword to the sword.
eng	Behold, I watch over them for evil, and
eng	not for good; and all the men of Judah
eng	who are in the land of Egypt will be
eng	consumed by the sword and by the
eng	famine, until they are all gone.
eng	Egypt rises up like the Nile,
eng	He made many to stumble.
eng	“though it can’t be searched;
eng	at the rumbling of his wheels,
eng	The sound of a cry from Horonaim,
eng	and they will pour him off;
eng	on Holon, on Jahzah, on Mephaath,
eng	and on your vintage.
eng	If grape gatherers came to you,
eng	and will hiss at all its plagues.
eng	Anguish and sorrows have taken hold of
eng	Hazor will be a dwelling place of
eng	which will make her land desolate,
eng	Their arrows will be as of an expert
eng	and him who handles the sickle in the
eng	and you weren’t aware.
eng	“for your day has come,
eng	for it is a land of engraved images,
eng	Who is the shepherd who can stand
eng	Babylon has been a golden cup in the
eng	The LORD of Armies has sworn by
eng	With you I will break in pieces
eng	for the purposes of the LORD against
eng	I will dry up her sea,
eng	Don’t let your heart faint.
eng	and of great destruction from the land
eng	He did that which was evil in the
eng	LORD’s sight, according to all that
eng	in the eighteenth year of
eng	Nebuchadnezzar, he carried away captive
eng	from Jerusalem eight hundred and
eng	Her adversaries have become the head.
eng	“Look, LORD, and see;
eng	“The LORD is righteous;
eng	He has thrown down in his wrath the
eng	strongholds of the daughter of Judah.
eng	They languish together.
eng	They hiss and wag their head at the
eng	daughter of Jerusalem, saying,
eng	My virgins and my young men have fallen
eng	and set me as a mark for the arrow.
eng	because he has laid it on him.
eng	“All our enemies have opened their
eng	mouth wide against us.
eng	and all their devices against me.
eng	For the iniquity of the daughter of my
eng	people is greater than the sin of Sodom,
eng	“Go away!” they cried to them.
eng	He will no more carry you away into
eng	and the young men from their music.
eng	The living creatures ran and returned
eng	as the appearance of a flash of
eng	He said to me, “Son of man, go to the
eng	house of Israel, and speak my words to
eng	You shall set your face towards the
eng	siege of Jerusalem, with your arm
eng	uncovered; and you shall prophesy
eng	and say, ‘You mountains of Israel,
eng	hear the word of the Lord GOD! Thus
eng	says the Lord GOD to the mountains and
eng	to the hills, to the watercourses and
eng	to the valleys: “Behold, I, even I,
eng	will bring a sword on you, and I will
eng	destroy your high places.
eng	They will cast their silver in the
eng	streets, and their gold will be as an
eng	unclean thing. Their silver and their
eng	gold won’t be able to deliver them in
eng	the day of the LORD’s wrath. They
eng	won’t satisfy their souls or fill
eng	their bellies; because it has been the
eng	stumbling block of their iniquity.
eng	Behold, six men came from the way of
eng	the upper gate, which lies towards the
eng	north, every man with his slaughter
eng	weapon in his hand. One man in the
eng	middle of them was clothed in linen,
eng	with a writer’s inkhorn by his side.
eng	They went in, and stood beside the
eng	the LORD’s glory went out from over
eng	the threshold of the house, and stood
eng	Then I spoke to the captives all the
eng	things that the LORD had shown me.
eng	“Son of man, prophesy against the
eng	prophets of Israel who prophesy, and
eng	say to those who prophesy out of their
eng	own heart, ‘Hear the LORD’s word:
eng	“‘“If the prophet is deceived and
eng	speaks a word, I, the LORD, have
eng	deceived that prophet, and I will
eng	stretch out my hand on him, and will
eng	destroy him from amongst my people
eng	“‘“Now when I passed by you, and
eng	looked at you, behold, your time was
eng	the time of love; and I spread my skirt
eng	over you, and covered your nakedness.
eng	Yes, I swore to you, and entered into a
eng	covenant with you,” says the Lord
eng	GOD, “and you became mine.
eng	I will judge you, as women who break
eng	wedlock and shed blood are judged; and
eng	I will bring on you the blood of wrath
eng	“‘“He also took some of the seed
eng	of the land, and planted it in fruitful
eng	soil. He placed it beside many waters.
eng	He set it as a willow tree.
eng	hasn’t lifted up his eyes to the
eng	idols of the house of Israel,
eng	who hasn’t eaten on the mountains,
eng	‘What was your mother?
eng	so that his voice should no more be
eng	heard on the mountains of Israel.
eng	I gave them my statutes, and showed
eng	them my ordinances, which if a man
eng	does, he will live in them.
eng	I will accept you as a pleasant aroma
eng	when I bring you out from the peoples
eng	and gather you out of the countries in
eng	which you have been scattered. I will
eng	be sanctified in you in the sight of
eng	Cry and wail, son of man;
eng	It will be to them as a false
eng	divination in their sight, who have
eng	sworn oaths to them; but he brings
eng	iniquity to memory, that they may be
eng	“‘“Behold, the princes of Israel,
eng	everyone according to his power, have
eng	been in you to shed blood.
eng	“Oholah played the prostitute when
eng	she was mine. She doted on her lovers,
eng	on the Assyrians her neighbours,
eng	You will be ridiculed and held in
eng	Gather its pieces into it,
eng	therefore, behold, I will open the side
eng	of Moab from the cities, from his
eng	cities which are on his frontiers, the
eng	glory of the country, Beth Jeshimoth,
eng	Baal Meon, and Kiriathaim,
eng	she and her inhabitants,
eng	They hung the shield and helmet in you.
eng	the dealers in your merchandise,
eng	All the inhabitants of the islands are
eng	in the heart of the seas.
eng	from the middle of the stones of fire.
eng	“‘Thus says the Lord GOD: “When I
eng	have gathered the house of Israel from
eng	the peoples amongst whom they are
eng	scattered, and am sanctified in them in
eng	the sight of the nations, then they
eng	will dwell in their own land which I
eng	gave to my servant Jacob.
eng	It will no longer be the confidence of
eng	the house of Israel, bringing iniquity
eng	to memory, when they turn to look after
eng	them. Then they will know that I am the
eng	“‘Thus says the Lord GOD:
eng	They will go into captivity.
eng	when it spread them out.
eng	and troubled the waters with your feet,
eng	“The sword of the king of Babylon
eng	“There are the princes of the north,
eng	all of them, and all the Sidonians, who
eng	have gone down with the slain. They are
eng	put to shame in the terror which they
eng	caused by their might. They lie
eng	uncircumcised with those who are slain
eng	by the sword, and bear their shame with
eng	those who go down to the pit.
eng	I will make the land a desolation and
eng	an astonishment. The pride of her power
eng	will cease. The mountains of Israel
eng	will be desolate, so that no one will
eng	“‘I will make with them a covenant
eng	of peace, and will cause evil animals
eng	to cease out of the land. They will
eng	dwell securely in the wilderness, and
eng	For, behold, I am for you, and I will
eng	come to you, and you will be tilled and
eng	the LORD’s hand was on me, and he
eng	brought me out in the LORD’s Spirit,
eng	and set me down in the middle of the
eng	valley; and it was full of bones.
eng	“Son of man, set your face towards
eng	Gog, of the land of Magog, the prince
eng	of Rosh, Meshech, and Tubal, and
eng	prophesy against him,
eng	“‘“Those who dwell in the cities
eng	of Israel will go out, and will make
eng	fires of the weapons and burn them,
eng	both the shields and the bucklers, the
eng	bows and the arrows, and the war clubs
eng	and the spears, and they will make
eng	fires with them for seven years;
eng	The lodges of the gate eastward were
eng	three on this side, and three on that
eng	side. The three of them were of one
eng	measure. The posts had one measure on
eng	this side and on that side.
eng	On the one side outside, as one goes up
eng	to the entry of the gate towards the
eng	north, were two tables; and on the
eng	other side, which belonged to the porch
eng	of the gate, were two tables.
eng	As for the temple, the door posts were
eng	squared. As for the face of the
eng	sanctuary, its appearance was as the
eng	appearance of the temple.
eng	The Spirit took me up, and brought me
eng	into the inner court; and behold, the
eng	LORD’s glory filled the house.
eng	You have not performed the duty of my
eng	holy things; but you have set
eng	performers of my duty in my sanctuary
eng	“‘“What is for the prince shall
eng	be on the one side and on the other
eng	side of the holy offering and of the
eng	possession of the city, in front of the
eng	holy offering and in front of the
eng	possession of the city, on the west
eng	side westward, and on the east side
eng	eastward; and in length answerable to
eng	one of the portions, from the west
eng	border to the east border.
eng	for a bull, and an ephah for a ram, and
eng	for the lambs as he is able to give,
eng	and a hin of oil to an ephah.
eng	“On the north side, from the great
eng	sea, by the way of Hethlon, to the
eng	Moreover from the possession of the
eng	Levites, and from the possession of the
eng	city, being in the middle of that which
eng	is the prince’s, between the border
eng	of Judah and the border of Benjamin,
eng	shall be for the prince.
eng	Now as for these four youths, God gave
eng	them knowledge and skill in all
eng	learning and wisdom; and Daniel had
eng	understanding in all visions and dreams.
eng	and knowledge to those who have
eng	Because you saw that a stone was cut
eng	out of the mountain without hands, and
eng	that it broke in pieces the iron, the
eng	brass, the clay, the silver, and the
eng	gold; the great God has made known to
eng	the king what will happen hereafter.
eng	The dream is certain, and its
eng	interpretation sure.”
eng	He answered, “Look, I see four men
eng	loose, walking in the middle of the
eng	fire, and they are unharmed. The
eng	appearance of the fourth is like a son
eng	Then Daniel, whose name was
eng	Belteshazzar, was stricken mute for a
eng	while, and his thoughts troubled him.
eng	The king answered, “Belteshazzar,
eng	don’t let the dream, or the
eng	interpretation, trouble you.”
eng	In the same hour, the fingers of a
eng	man’s hand came out and wrote near
eng	the lamp stand on the plaster of the
eng	wall of the king’s palace. The king
eng	saw the part of the hand that wrote.
eng	Then this Daniel was distinguished
eng	above the presidents and the satraps,
eng	because an excellent spirit was in him;
eng	and the king thought to set him over
eng	He delivers and rescues.
eng	‘These great animals, which are four,
eng	are four kings, who will arise out of
eng	He said, “Behold, I will make you
eng	know what will be in the latter time of
eng	the indignation; for it belongs to the
eng	appointed time of the end.
eng	Lord, hear. Lord, forgive. Lord, listen
eng	and do. Don’t defer, for your own
eng	sake, my God, because your city and
eng	your people are called by your name.”
eng	But I will tell you that which is
eng	inscribed in the writing of truth.
eng	There is no one who holds with me
eng	against these, but Michael your prince.
eng	For ships of Kittim will come against
eng	him. Therefore he will be grieved, and
eng	will return, and have indignation
eng	against the holy covenant, and will
eng	take action. He will even return, and
eng	have regard to those who forsake the
eng	When the LORD spoke at first by Hosea,
eng	the LORD said to Hosea, “Go, take for
eng	yourself a wife of prostitution and
eng	children of unfaithfulness; for the
eng	land commits great adultery, forsaking
eng	my oil and my drink.’
eng	and speak tenderly to her.
eng	So I bought her for myself for fifteen
eng	pieces of silver and a homer
eng	It will be, like people, like priest;
eng	Their drink has become sour.
eng	and the trumpet in Ramah!
eng	After two days he will revive us.
eng	When I would heal Israel,
eng	The pride of Israel testifies to his
eng	Israel has cast off that which is good.
eng	they sacrifice meat and eat it;
eng	The days of visitation have come.
eng	All their princes are rebels.
eng	“Israel, you have sinned from the
eng	and burnt incense to engraved images.
eng	and like a dove out of the land of
eng	I will yet again make you dwell in
eng	and you shall acknowledge no god but me,
eng	the breath of the LORD coming up from
eng	and blossom like the vine.
eng	He has stripped its bark, and thrown it
eng	joy and gladness from the house of our
eng	Their appearance is as the appearance
eng	and turn to the LORD, your God;
eng	its front into the eastern sea,
eng	and your sons and your daughters will
eng	Because you have taken my silver and my
eng	The sun and the moon are darkened,
eng	and the pastures of the shepherds will
eng	but I will send a fire on the wall of
eng	and I will cut off the judge from
eng	I raised up some of your sons for
eng	without the people being afraid?
eng	I will strike the winter house with the
eng	“I struck you with blight and mildew
eng	many times in your gardens and your
eng	“Seek me, and you will live;
eng	and who turn aside the needy in the
eng	I will not accept them;
eng	and the feasting and lounging will end.
eng	Then Amaziah the priest of Bethel sent
eng	to Jeroboam king of Israel, saying,
eng	“Amos has conspired against you in
eng	the middle of the house of Israel. The
eng	land is not able to bear all his words.
eng	Yes, it will rise up wholly like the
eng	For the Lord, the LORD of Armies, is he
eng	who touches the land and it melts, and
eng	all who dwell in it will mourn; and it
eng	will rise up wholly like the River, and
eng	will sink again, like the River of
eng	For the violence done to your brother
eng	Jacob, shame will cover you, and you
eng	will be cut off forever.
eng	The news reached the king of Nineveh,
eng	and he arose from his throne, and took
eng	off his royal robe, covered himself
eng	with sackcloth, and sat in ashes.
eng	What is the disobedience of Jacob?
eng	She was the beginning of sin to the
eng	Isn’t it for you to know justice?
eng	and pervert all equity.
eng	and no one will make them afraid:
eng	neither do they understand his counsel;
eng	The remnant of Jacob will be amongst
eng	and you enduring foundations of the
eng	and with a bag of deceitful weights?
eng	Thus they conspire together.
eng	A day to build your walls—
eng	and mercy to Abraham,
eng	Woe to the bloody city! It is all full
eng	of lies and robbery. The prey doesn’t
eng	Aren’t you from everlasting, LORD my
eng	God,  my Holy One? We will not die.
eng	LORD, you have appointed him for
eng	judgement. You, Rock, have established
eng	In the middle of the years make it
eng	The sun and moon stood still in the sky,
eng	and enables me to go in high places.
eng	The LORD will be awesome to them, for
eng	he will famish all the gods of the
eng	land. Men will worship him, everyone
eng	from his place, even all the shores of
eng	You have sown much, and bring in
eng	little. You eat, but you don’t have
eng	enough. You drink, but you aren’t
eng	filled with drink. You clothe
eng	yourselves, but no one is warm, and he
eng	who earns wages earns wages to put them
eng	into a bag with holes in it.”
eng	Is the seed yet in the barn? Yes, the
eng	vine, the fig tree, the pomegranate,
eng	and the olive tree haven’t produced.
eng	From today I will bless you.’”
eng	I lifted up my eyes, and saw, and
eng	behold, a man with a measuring line in
eng	Then the angel who talked with me
eng	answered me, “Don’t you know what
eng	The angel answered me, “These are the
eng	four winds of the sky, which go out
eng	from standing before the Lord of all
eng	the LORD of Armies says: “If it is
eng	marvellous in the eyes of the remnant
eng	of this people in those days, should it
eng	also be marvellous in my eyes?” says
eng	and she will be devoured with fire.
eng	because of the blood of your covenant,
eng	and they have told false dreams.
eng	and they will remember me in far
eng	I said to them, “If you think it
eng	best, give me my wages; and if not,
eng	keep them.” So they weighed for my
eng	wages thirty pieces of silver.
eng	It shall happen that in all the
eng	land,” says the LORD,
eng	A revelation, the LORD’s  word to
eng	Did he not make you one, although he
eng	had the residue of the Spirit? Why one?
eng	He sought godly offspring.  Therefore
eng	take heed to your spirit, and let no
eng	one deal treacherously against the wife
eng	Ram became the father of Amminadab.
eng	Amminadab became the father of Nahshon.
eng	Nahshon became the father of Salmon.
eng	‘You Bethlehem, land of Judah,
eng	Make his paths straight.”
eng	that it might be fulfilled which was
eng	spoken through Isaiah the prophet,
eng	for they shall see God.
eng	Neither shall you swear by your head,
eng	for you can’t make one hair white or
eng	so that you are not seen by men to be
eng	fasting, but by your Father who is in
eng	secret, and your Father, who sees in
eng	secret, will reward you.
eng	How  narrow is the gate, and restricted
eng	is the way that leads to life! Few are
eng	He touched her hand, and the fever left
eng	her. She got up and served him.
eng	As Jesus passed by from there, he saw a
eng	man called Matthew sitting at the tax
eng	collection office. He said to him,
eng	“Follow me.” He got up and followed
eng	Then he said to his disciples, “The
eng	harvest indeed is plentiful, but the
eng	“Aren’t two sparrows sold for an
eng	assarion coin?  Not one of them falls
eng	on the ground apart from your
eng	and say, ‘We played the flute for
eng	you, and you didn’t dance. We mourned
eng	for you, and you didn’t lament.’
eng	and commanded them that they should not
eng	For as Jonah was three days and three
eng	nights in the belly of the whale, so
eng	will the Son of Man be three days and
eng	three nights in the heart of the earth.
eng	their ears are dull of hearing,
eng	Then Jesus sent the multitudes away,
eng	and went into the house. His disciples
eng	came to him, saying, “Explain to us
eng	the parable of the darnel weeds of the
eng	But when Herod’s birthday came, the
eng	daughter of Herodias danced amongst
eng	them and pleased Herod.
eng	When they had crossed over, they came
eng	to the land of Gennesaret.
eng	But he answered, “I wasn’t sent to
eng	anyone but the lost sheep of the house
eng	Now when Jesus came into the parts of
eng	Caesarea Philippi, he asked his
eng	disciples, saying, “Who do men say
eng	that I, the Son of Man, am?”
eng	“Lord, have mercy on my son, for he
eng	is epileptic, and suffers grievously;
eng	for he often falls into the fire, and
eng	often into the water.
eng	“If your brother sins against you,
eng	go, show him his fault between you and
eng	him alone. If he listens to you, you
eng	have gained back your brother.
eng	His disciples said to him, “If this
eng	is the case of the man with his wife,
eng	it is not expedient to marry.”
eng	When evening had come, the lord of the
eng	vineyard said to his manager, ‘Call
eng	the labourers and pay them their wages,
eng	beginning from the last to the first.’
eng	saying to them, “Go into the village
eng	that is opposite you, and immediately
eng	you will find a donkey tied, and a colt
eng	with her. Untie them, and bring them to
eng	They reasoned with themselves, saying,
eng	“If we say, ‘From heaven,’ he
eng	will ask us, ‘Why then did you not
eng	“The Kingdom of Heaven is like a
eng	certain king, who made a marriage feast
eng	For in the resurrection they neither
eng	marry, nor are given in marriage, but
eng	are like God’s angels in heaven.
eng	But he who is greatest amongst you will
eng	But he answered them, “You see all of
eng	these things, don’t you? Most
eng	certainly I tell you, there will not be
eng	left here one stone on another, that
eng	will not be thrown down.”
eng	and then the sign of the Son of Man
eng	will appear in the sky. Then all the
eng	tribes of the earth will mourn, and
eng	they will see the Son of Man coming on
eng	the clouds of the sky with power and
eng	But the wise answered, saying, ‘What
eng	if there isn’t enough for us and you?
eng	You go rather to those who sell, and
eng	buy for yourselves.’
eng	When did we see you sick, or in prison,
eng	He answered, “He who dipped his hand
eng	with me in the dish, the same will
eng	Then Jesus said to him, “Put your
eng	sword back into its place, for all
eng	those who take the sword will die by
eng	saying, “I have sinned in that I
eng	betrayed innocent blood.”
eng	All the people answered, “May his
eng	blood be on us, and on our children!”
eng	Many women were there watching from
eng	afar, who had followed Jesus from
eng	Galilee, serving him.
eng	When they saw him, they bowed down to
eng	him, but some doubted.
eng	Immediately there was in their
eng	synagogue a man with an unclean spirit,
eng	Immediately Jesus, perceiving in his
eng	spirit that they so reasoned within
eng	themselves, said to them, “Why do you
eng	reason these things in your hearts?
eng	For he had healed many, so that as many
eng	as had diseases pressed on him that
eng	they might touch him.
eng	and as he sowed, some seed fell by the
eng	road, and the birds  came and devoured
eng	With many such parables he spoke the
eng	word to them, as they were able to hear
eng	He went his way, and began to proclaim
eng	in Decapolis how Jesus had done great
eng	things for him, and everyone marvelled.
eng	He went around the villages teaching.
eng	When it was late in the day, his
eng	disciples came to him, and said,
eng	“This place is deserted, and it is
eng	‘This people honours me with their
eng	Looking up to heaven, he sighed, and
eng	said to him, “Ephphatha!”  that is,
eng	He took hold of the blind man by the
eng	hand, and brought him out of the
eng	village. When he had spit on his eyes,
eng	and laid his hands on him, he asked him
eng	Coming to the disciples, he saw a great
eng	multitude around them, and scribes
eng	If your hand causes you to stumble, cut
eng	it off. It is better for you to enter
eng	into life maimed, rather than having
eng	your two hands to go into Gehenna,
eng	into the unquenchable fire,
eng	Jesus looked around, and said to his
eng	disciples, “How difficult it is for
eng	those who have riches to enter into
eng	Jesus asked him, “What do you want me
eng	They came again to Jerusalem, and as he
eng	was walking in the temple, the chief
eng	priests, and the scribes, and the
eng	Jesus answered them, “Render to
eng	Caesar the things that are Caesar’s,
eng	and to God the things that are
eng	Jesus sat down opposite the treasury,
eng	and saw how the multitude cast money
eng	into the treasury. Many who were rich
eng	Then they will see the Son of Man
eng	coming in clouds with great power and
eng	As they sat and were eating, Jesus
eng	said, “Most certainly I tell you, one
eng	of you will betray me—he who eats
eng	Jesus answered them, “Have you come
eng	out, as against a robber, with swords
eng	and clubs to seize me?
eng	But Jesus made no further answer, so
eng	that Pilate marvelled.
eng	At the ninth hour Jesus cried with a
eng	loud voice, saying, “Eloi, Eloi, lama
eng	sabachthani?” which is, being
eng	interpreted, “My God, my God, why
eng	have you forsaken me?”
eng	These signs will accompany those who
eng	believe: in my name they will cast out
eng	demons; they will speak with new
eng	to a virgin pledged to be married to a
eng	man whose name was Joseph, of David’s
eng	house. The virgin’s name was Mary.
eng	He has put down princes from their
eng	In holiness and righteousness before
eng	him all the days of our life.
eng	When eight days were fulfilled for the
eng	circumcision of the child, his name was
eng	called Jesus, which was given by the
eng	angel before he was conceived in the
eng	He said to them, “Why were you
eng	looking for me? Didn’t you know that
eng	I must be in my Father’s house?”
eng	added this also to them all, that he
eng	shut up John in prison.
eng	saying, “Ah! what have we to do with
eng	you, Jesus of Nazareth? Have you come
eng	to destroy us? I know you who you are:
eng	the Holy One of God!”
eng	Behold, men brought a paralysed man on
eng	a cot, and they sought to bring him in
eng	to lay before Jesus.
eng	Then Jesus said to them, “I will ask
eng	you something: Is it lawful on the
eng	Sabbath to do good, or to do harm? To
eng	save a life, or to kill?”
eng	bless those who curse you, and pray for
eng	those who mistreat you.
eng	When he heard about Jesus, he sent to
eng	him elders of the Jews, asking him to
eng	come and save his servant.
eng	“To what then will I liken the people
eng	of this generation? What are they like?
eng	Then his disciples asked him, “What
eng	does this parable mean?”
eng	But the man from whom the demons had
eng	gone out begged him that he might go
eng	with him, but Jesus sent him away,
eng	He took them, and withdrew apart to a
eng	deserted place of a city called
eng	On the next day, when they had come
eng	down from the mountain, a great
eng	Then he said to them, “The harvest is
eng	indeed plentiful, but the labourers are
eng	few. Pray therefore to the Lord of the
eng	harvest, that he may send out labourers
eng	In the same way a Levite also, when he
eng	came to the place, and saw him, passed
eng	by on the other side.
eng	Or if he asks for an egg, he won’t
eng	give him a scorpion, will he?
eng	But woe to you Pharisees! For you tithe
eng	mint and rue and every herb, but you
eng	bypass justice and God’s love. You
eng	ought to have done these, and not to
eng	have left the other undone.
eng	He said, ‘This is what I will do. I
eng	will pull down my barns, and build
eng	bigger ones, and there I will store all
eng	my grain and my goods.
eng	but he who didn’t know, and did
eng	things worthy of stripes, will be
eng	beaten with few stripes. To whomever
eng	much is given, of him will much be
eng	required; and to whom much was
eng	entrusted, of him more will be asked.
eng	It is like a grain of mustard seed,
eng	which a man took, and put in his own
eng	garden. It grew, and became a large
eng	tree, and the birds of the sky live in
eng	For everyone who exalts himself will be
eng	humbled, and whoever humbles himself
eng	“Which of you men, if you had one
eng	hundred sheep, and lost one of them,
eng	wouldn’t leave the ninety-nine in the
eng	wilderness, and go after the one that
eng	was lost, until he found it?
eng	He called him, and said to him, ‘What
eng	is this that I hear about you? Give an
eng	accounting of your management, for you
eng	can no longer be manager.’
eng	He said to the disciples, “It is
eng	impossible that no occasions of
eng	stumbling should come, but woe to him
eng	through whom they come!
eng	In that day, he who will be on the
eng	housetop, and his goods in the house,
eng	let him not go down to take them away.
eng	Let him who is in the field likewise
eng	Jesus, seeing that he became very sad,
eng	said, “How hard it is for those who
eng	have riches to enter into God’s
eng	For the Son of Man came to seek and to
eng	save that which was lost.”
eng	Peace in heaven, and glory in the
eng	But he looked at them, and said,
eng	“Then what is this that is written,
eng	‘The Lord said to my Lord,
eng	They will fall by the edge of the
eng	sword, and will be led captive into all
eng	the nations. Jerusalem will be trampled
eng	down by the Gentiles, until the times
eng	of the Gentiles are fulfilled.
eng	for I tell you, I will no longer by any
eng	means eat of it until it is fulfilled
eng	Being in agony he prayed more
eng	earnestly. His sweat became like great
eng	drops of blood falling down on the
eng	They said, “Why do we need any more
eng	witness? For we ourselves have heard
eng	from his own mouth!”
eng	For behold, the days are coming in
eng	which they will say, ‘Blessed are the
eng	barren, the wombs that never bore, and
eng	the breasts that never nursed.’
eng	They found the stone rolled away from
eng	He went in to stay with them.
eng	John testified, saying, “I have seen
eng	the Spirit descending like a dove out
eng	of heaven, and it remained on him.
eng	Jesus said to them, “Fill the water
eng	pots with water.” They filled them up
eng	Most certainly I tell you, we speak
eng	that which we know, and testify of that
eng	which we have seen, and you don’t
eng	receive our witness.
eng	He needed to pass through Samaria.
eng	The disciples therefore said to one
eng	another, “Has anyone brought him
eng	Immediately, the man was made well, and
eng	took up his mat and walked.
eng	You don’t have his word living in
eng	you; because you don’t believe him
eng	But he said to them, “It is I.
eng	This is the bread which comes down out
eng	of heaven, that anyone may eat of it
eng	Having said these things to them, he
eng	But he said this about the Spirit,
eng	which those believing in him were to
eng	receive. For the Holy Spirit was not
eng	yet given, because Jesus wasn’t yet
eng	Jesus answered them, “Even if I
eng	testify about myself, my testimony is
eng	true, for I know where I came from, and
eng	where I am going; but you don’t know
eng	where I came from, or where I am going.
eng	You do the works of your father.”
eng	They therefore were asking him, “How
eng	were your eyes opened?”
eng	He said, “Lord, I believe!” and he
eng	But you don’t believe, because you
eng	are not of my sheep, as I told you.
eng	So Jesus said to them plainly then,
eng	I know that you always listen to me,
eng	but because of the multitude that
eng	standing around I said this, that they
eng	may believe that you sent me.”
eng	Jesus, having found a young donkey, sat
eng	on it. As it is written,
eng	lest they should see with their eyes,
eng	Most certainly I tell you, a servant is
eng	not greater than his lord, neither one
eng	who is sent greater than he who sent
eng	Jesus said to him, “I am the way, the
eng	truth, and the life. No one comes to
eng	the Father, except through me.
eng	Remain in me, and I in you. As the
eng	branch can’t bear fruit by itself,
eng	unless it remains in the vine, so
eng	neither can you, unless you remain in
eng	Nevertheless I tell you the truth: It
eng	is to your advantage that I go away,
eng	for if I don’t go away, the
eng	Counsellor won’t come to you. But if
eng	I go, I will send him to you.
eng	I glorified you on the earth. I have
eng	accomplished the work which you have
eng	When therefore he said to them, “I am
eng	he,” they went backward, and fell to
eng	that the word of Jesus might be
eng	fulfilled, which he spoke, signifying
eng	by what kind of death he should die.
eng	He went out, bearing his cross, to the
eng	place called “The Place of a
eng	Skull”, which is called in Hebrew,
eng	Now on the first day of the week, Mary
eng	Magdalene went early, while it was
eng	still dark, to the tomb, and saw the
eng	stone taken away from the tomb.
eng	Then he said to Thomas, “Reach here
eng	your finger, and see my hands. Reach
eng	here your hand, and put it into my
eng	side. Don’t be unbelieving, but
eng	He said to him the third time,
eng	“Simon, son of Jonah, do you have
eng	For it is written in the book of Psalms,
eng	Your young men will see visions.
eng	until I make your enemies a footstool
eng	But the things which God announced by
eng	the mouth of all his prophets, that
eng	Christ should suffer, he thus fulfilled.
eng	For the man on whom this miracle of
eng	healing was performed was more than
eng	She fell down immediately at his feet,
eng	and died. The young men came in and
eng	found her dead, and they carried her
eng	out and buried her by her husband.
eng	They agreed with him. Summoning the
eng	apostles, they beat them and commanded
eng	them not to speak in the name of Jesus,
eng	On the second time Joseph was made
eng	known to his brothers, and Joseph’s
eng	race was revealed to Pharaoh.
eng	‘Did you offer to me slain animals
eng	Philip went down to the city of
eng	Samaria, and proclaimed to them the
eng	so he doesn’t open his mouth.
eng	He took food and was strengthened. Saul
eng	stayed several days with the disciples
eng	who were at Damascus.
eng	He said to him, “Your prayers and
eng	your gifts to the needy have gone up
eng	for a memorial before God.
eng	Therefore I sent to you at once, and it
eng	was good of you to come. Now therefore
eng	we are all here present in the sight of
eng	God to hear all things that have been
eng	commanded you by God.”
eng	who will speak to you words by which
eng	you will be saved, you and all your
eng	When she recognised Peter’s voice,
eng	she didn’t open the gate for joy, but
eng	ran in, and reported that Peter was
eng	standing in front of the gate.
eng	For a period of about forty years he
eng	put up with them in the wilderness.
eng	The next Sabbath almost the whole city
eng	was gathered together to hear the word
eng	But as the disciples stood around him,
eng	he rose up, and entered into the city.
eng	On the next day he went out with
eng	all the Gentiles who are called by my
eng	So the assemblies were strengthened in
eng	the faith, and increased in number
eng	He brought them up into his house, and
eng	set food before them, and rejoiced
eng	greatly, with all his household, having
eng	Now all the Athenians and the strangers
eng	living there spent their time in
eng	nothing else, but either to tell or to
eng	hear some new thing.
eng	Then all the Greeks laid hold on
eng	Sosthenes, the ruler of the synagogue,
eng	and beat him before the judgement seat.
eng	Gallio didn’t care about any of these
eng	The man in whom the evil spirit was
eng	lept on them, overpowered them, and
eng	prevailed against them, so that they
eng	fled out of that house naked and
eng	But these had gone ahead, and were
eng	waiting for us at Troas.
eng	In all things I gave you an example,
eng	that so labouring you ought to help the
eng	weak, and to remember the words of the
eng	Lord Jesus, that he himself said, ‘It
eng	is more blessed to give than to
eng	Then Paul took the men, and the next
eng	day, purified himself and went with
eng	them into the temple, declaring the
eng	fulfilment of the days of purification,
eng	until the offering was offered for
eng	For you will be a witness for him to
eng	all men of what you have seen and heard.
eng	There were more than forty people who
eng	had made this conspiracy.
eng	The Jews also joined in the attack,
eng	affirming that these things were so.
eng	Then Festus, when he had conferred with
eng	the council, answered, “You have
eng	appealed to Caesar. To Caesar you shall
eng	at noon, O king, I saw on the way a
eng	light from the sky, brighter than the
eng	sun, shining around me and those who
eng	and said to them, “Sirs, I perceive
eng	that the voyage will be with injury and
eng	much loss, not only of the cargo and
eng	the ship, but also of our lives.”
eng	Casting off the anchors, they left them
eng	in the sea, at the same time untying
eng	the rudder ropes. Hoisting up the
eng	foresail to the wind, they made for the
eng	Now I don’t desire to have you
eng	unaware, brothers, that I often planned
eng	to come to you, and was hindered so
eng	far, that I might have some fruit
eng	amongst you also, even as amongst the
eng	rest of the Gentiles.
eng	For there is no partiality with God.
eng	What then? Are we better than they? No,
eng	in no way. For we previously warned
eng	both Jews and Greeks, that they are all
eng	Do we then nullify the law through
eng	faith? May it never be! No, we
eng	and perseverance, proven character; and
eng	proven character, hope:
eng	Also, do not present your members to
eng	sin as instruments of unrighteousness,
eng	but present yourselves to God, as alive
eng	from the dead, and your members as
eng	instruments of righteousness to God.
eng	But if what I don’t desire, that I
eng	do, it is no more I that do it, but sin
eng	But if we hope for that which we
eng	don’t see, we wait for it with
eng	So then it is not of him who wills, nor
eng	of him who runs, but of God who has
eng	Brothers, my heart’s desire and my
eng	prayer to God is for Israel, that they
eng	God didn’t reject his people, which
eng	he foreknew. Or don’t you know what
eng	the Scripture says about Elijah? How he
eng	pleads with God against Israel:
eng	This is my covenant to them,
eng	If it is possible, as much as it is up
eng	to you, be at peace with all men.
eng	For to this end Christ died, rose, and
eng	lived again, that he might be Lord of
eng	both the dead and the living.
eng	and sing to your name.”
eng	that I may be delivered from those who
eng	are disobedient in Judea, and that my
eng	service which I have for Jerusalem may
eng	be acceptable to the saints;
eng	to the assembly of God which is at
eng	Corinth; those who are sanctified in
eng	Christ Jesus, called to be saints, with
eng	all who call on the name of our Lord
eng	Jesus Christ in every place, both
eng	Because of him, you are in Christ
eng	Jesus, who was made to us wisdom from
eng	God, and righteousness and
eng	sanctification, and redemption:
eng	For we are God’s fellow workers. You
eng	are God’s farming, God’s building.
eng	I beg you therefore, be imitators of me.
eng	“All things are lawful for me,” but
eng	not all things are expedient. “All
eng	things are lawful for me,” but I will
eng	not be brought under the power of
eng	For he who was called in the Lord being
eng	a bondservant is the Lord’s free man.
eng	Likewise he who was called being free
eng	is Christ’s bondservant.
eng	Thus, sinning against the brothers, and
eng	wounding their conscience when it is
eng	weak, you sin against Christ.
eng	and were all baptised into Moses in the
eng	cloud and in the sea;
eng	Give no occasion for stumbling, either
eng	to Jews, or to Greeks, or to the
eng	For he who eats and drinks in an
eng	unworthy way eats and drinks judgement
eng	to himself, if he doesn’t discern the
eng	that there should be no division in the
eng	body, but that the members should have
eng	the same care for one another.
eng	If then I don’t know the meaning of
eng	the sound, I would be to him who speaks
eng	a foreigner, and he who speaks would be
eng	Now I declare to you, brothers, the
eng	Good News which I preached to you,
eng	which also you received, in which you
eng	I affirm, by the boasting in you which
eng	I have in Christ Jesus our Lord, I die
eng	Now concerning the collection for the
eng	saints, as I commanded the assemblies
eng	of Galatia, you do likewise.
eng	Our hope for you is steadfast, knowing
eng	that, since you are partakers of the
eng	sufferings, so also are you of the
eng	I had no relief for my spirit, because
eng	I didn’t find Titus, my brother, but
eng	taking my leave of them, I went out
eng	We are pressed on every side, yet not
eng	crushed; perplexed, yet not to despair;
eng	We are therefore ambassadors on behalf
eng	of Christ, as though God were
eng	entreating by us: we beg you on behalf
eng	of Christ, be reconciled to God.
eng	Open your hearts to us. We wronged no
eng	one. We corrupted no one. We took
eng	advantage of no one.
eng	But thanks be to God, who puts the same
eng	earnest care for you into the heart of
eng	throwing down imaginations and every
eng	high thing that is exalted against the
eng	knowledge of God, and bringing every
eng	thought into captivity to the obedience
eng	That which I speak, I don’t speak
eng	according to the Lord, but as in
eng	foolishness, in this confidence of
eng	Behold, this is the third time I am
eng	ready to come to you, and I will not be
eng	a burden to you; for I seek not your
eng	possessions, but you. For the children
eng	ought not to save up for the parents,
eng	but the parents for the children.
eng	As we have said before, so I now say
eng	again: if any man preaches to you any
eng	“good news” other than that which
eng	you received, let him be cursed.
eng	“We, being Jews by nature, and not
eng	So that the law has become our tutor to
eng	bring us to Christ, that we might be
eng	For this Hagar is Mount Sinai in
eng	Arabia, and answers to the Jerusalem
eng	that exists now, for she is in bondage
eng	envy, murders, drunkenness, orgies, and
eng	things like these; of which I forewarn
eng	you, even as I also forewarned you,
eng	that those who practise such things
eng	will not inherit God’s Kingdom.
eng	in whom we have our redemption through
eng	his blood, the forgiveness of our
eng	trespasses, according to the riches of
eng	For he is our peace, who made both one,
eng	and broke down the middle wall of
eng	I therefore, the prisoner in the Lord,
eng	beg you to walk worthily of the calling
eng	with which you were called,
eng	Let all bitterness, wrath, anger,
eng	outcry, and slander, be put away from
eng	you, with all malice.
eng	For no man ever hated his own flesh;
eng	but nourishes and cherishes it, even as
eng	the Lord also does the assembly;
eng	To all the saints in Christ Jesus who
eng	are at Philippi, with the overseers
eng	having the same conflict which you saw
eng	in me, and now hear is in me.
eng	because for the work of Christ he came
eng	near to death, risking his life to
eng	supply that which was lacking in your
eng	The things which you learnt, received,
eng	heard, and saw in me: do these things,
eng	and the God of peace will be with you.
eng	who is the image of the invisible God,
eng	the firstborn of all creation.
eng	Let no one therefore judge you in
eng	eating, or in drinking, or with respect
eng	to a feast day or a new moon or a
eng	And whatever you do, work heartily, as
eng	for the Lord, and not for men,
eng	and to wait for his Son from heaven,
eng	whom he raised from the dead—Jesus,
eng	who delivers us from the wrath to come.
eng	night and day praying exceedingly that
eng	we may see your face, and may perfect
eng	that which is lacking in your faith?
eng	For God didn’t appoint us to wrath,
eng	but to the obtaining of salvation
eng	through our Lord Jesus Christ,
eng	when he comes to be glorified in his
eng	saints, and to be admired amongst all
eng	those who have believed (because our
eng	testimony to you was believed) in that
eng	For we hear of some who walk amongst
eng	you in rebellion, who don’t work at
eng	all, but are busybodies.
eng	For this is good and acceptable in the
eng	sight of God our Saviour;
eng	justified in the spirit,
eng	being approved by good works, if she
eng	has brought up children, if she has
eng	been hospitable to strangers, if she
eng	has washed the saints’ feet, if she
eng	has relieved the afflicted, and if she
eng	has diligently followed every good work.
eng	which in its own times he will show,
eng	who is the blessed and only Ruler, the
eng	King of kings, and Lord of lords;
eng	Also, if anyone competes in athletics,
eng	he isn’t crowned unless he has
eng	competed by the rules.
eng	For men will be lovers of self, lovers
eng	of money, boastful, arrogant,
eng	blasphemers, disobedient to parents,
eng	of whom you also must beware; for he
eng	greatly opposed our words.
eng	in all things showing yourself an
eng	example of good works; in your teaching
eng	showing integrity, seriousness,
eng	For we have much joy and comfort in
eng	your love, because the hearts of the
eng	saints have been refreshed through you,
eng	Of the angels he says,
eng	You crowned him with glory and honour.
eng	as I swore in my wrath,
eng	For every high priest, being taken from
eng	amongst men, is appointed for men in
eng	things pertaining to God, that he may
eng	offer both gifts and sacrifices for
eng	For when God made a promise to Abraham,
eng	since he could swear by no one greater,
eng	he swore by himself,
eng	(for they indeed have been made priests
eng	without an oath), but he with an oath
eng	by him that says of him,
eng	and they will be my people.
eng	It was necessary therefore that the
eng	copies of the things in the heavens
eng	should be cleansed with these; but the
eng	heavenly things themselves with better
eng	sacrifices than these.
eng	Now where remission of these is, there
eng	is no more offering for sin.
eng	By faith, Noah, being warned about
eng	things not yet seen, moved with godly
eng	fear,  prepared a ship for the saving
eng	of his house, through which he
eng	condemned the world, and became heir of
eng	the righteousness which is according to
eng	They were stoned.They were sawn apart.
eng	They were tempted. They were slain with
eng	the sword.They went around in sheep
eng	skins and in goat skins; being
eng	destitute, afflicted, ill-treated
eng	to Jesus, the mediator of a new
eng	covenant,and to the blood of sprinkling
eng	that speaks better than that of Abel.
eng	But I exhort you, brothers, endure the
eng	word of exhortation; for I have written
eng	to you in few words.
eng	Pure religion and undefiled before our
eng	God and Father is this: to visit the
eng	fatherless and widows in their
eng	affliction, and to keep oneself
eng	unstained by the world.
eng	Behold,  the ships also, though they
eng	are so big and are driven by fierce
eng	winds, are yet guided by a very small
eng	rudder, wherever the pilot desires.
eng	But now you glory in your boasting. All
eng	such boasting is evil.
eng	receiving the result of your faith, the
eng	salvation of your souls.
eng	“The stone which the builders
eng	not rendering evil for evil, or insult
eng	for insult; but instead blessing;
eng	knowing that to this were you called,
eng	that you may inherit a blessing.
eng	As each has received a gift, employ it
eng	in serving one another, as good
eng	managers of the grace of God in its
eng	and in godliness brotherly affection;
eng	and in brotherly affection, love.
eng	but he was rebuked for his own
eng	disobedience. A mute donkey spoke with
eng	a man’s voice and stopped the madness
eng	If we say that we have fellowship with
eng	him and walk in the darkness, we lie,
eng	and don’t tell the truth.
eng	Who is the liar but he who denies that
eng	Jesus is the Christ? This is the
eng	Antichrist, he who denies the Father
eng	This is his commandment, that we should
eng	believe in the name of his Son, Jesus
eng	Christ, and love one another, even as
eng	For there are three who testify :
eng	For I rejoiced greatly, when brothers
eng	came and testified about your truth,
eng	even as you walk in truth.
eng	These are they who cause divisions, and
eng	are sensual, not having the Spirit.
eng	“I know your works, and your toil and
eng	perseverance, and that you can’t
eng	tolerate evil men, and have tested
eng	those who call themselves apostles, and
eng	they are not, and found them false.
eng	and I will give him the morning star.
eng	that looked like a jasper stone and a
eng	sardius. There was a rainbow around the
eng	throne, like an emerald to look at.
eng	And behold, a white horse, and he who
eng	sat on it had a bow. A crown was given
eng	to him, and he came out conquering, and
eng	of the tribe of Issachar twelve
eng	Then out of the smoke came locusts on
eng	the earth, and power was given to them,
eng	as the scorpions of the earth have
eng	They  told me, “You must prophesy
eng	again over many peoples, nations,
eng	languages, and kings.”
eng	They overcame him because of the
eng	Lamb’s blood, and because of the word
eng	of their testimony. They didn’t love
eng	their life, even to death.
eng	I saw an angel flying in mid heaven,
eng	having an eternal Good News to proclaim
eng	to those who dwell on the earth, and to
eng	every nation, tribe, language, and
eng	I heard a loud voice out of the temple,
eng	saying to the seven angels, “Go and
eng	pour out the seven bowls of the wrath
eng	of God on the earth!”
eng	They are seven kings. Five have fallen,
eng	the one is, the other has not yet come.
eng	When he comes, he must continue a
eng	The voice of harpists, minstrels, flute
eng	players, and trumpeters will be heard
eng	no more at all in you. No craftsman, of
eng	whatever craft, will be found any more
eng	at all in you. The sound of a mill will
eng	be heard no more at all in you.
eng	And after the thousand years, Satan
eng	will be released from his prison,
eng	The twelve gates were twelve pearls.
eng	Each one of the gates was made of one
eng	pearl. The street of the city was pure
eng	gold, like transparent glass.
